 A preservative belonging to a class of agents known as higher molecular glycols.
 
 A synthetic ingredient that functions as a skin-conditioning and occlusive agent.
  
 A synthetic fatty alcohol that functions as an emollient and soothing agent... 
 A fragrant extract from a type of acacia tree. There is no research showing it to have any benefit...
 
 Herb that can have skin soothing properties, but is used primarily as a thickening agent.
 
 Pronounced "ah-sigh-ee", this small berry with a deep purple color is a source of...
 
 Acid found in vinegar, some fruits, and human sweat. It can be sensitizing to skin...
 
 Strong solvent that is used in Nail Polish removers.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Emollient derived from lanolin.
 
 An ester of lanolin alcohol uses as an emollient and occlusive agent. An ester is a compound formed...
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Amino acid sugar and primary constituent of mucopolysaccharides and hyaluronic acid.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Acetyl hexapeptide-1 is a synthetic peptide composed of the amino acids alanine, arginine, histidine, leucine, phenylalanine and tryptophan.
 
 Acetyl hexapeptide-37 is a synthetic peptide composed of the amino acids alanine, proline, serine and glycine.
 
 Acetyl hexapeptide-8 is a synthetically-derived peptide that, like all peptides, has water-binding properties and skin-restoring ability.
 
 A synthetic peptide that is based around octapeptide-3, a peptide complex composed of the amino acids aspartic acid, glutamic acid, glutamine, and methionine...
 
 Acetyl tetrapeptide-11 is a synthetic peptide that helps skin look and feel healthier.
 
 Acetyl tetrapeptide-5 is a synthetic peptide that has calming, smoothing, hydrating, and firmness-enhancing benefits when applied to skin.
 
 Acetyl tetrapeptide-9 is a synthetic peptide that helps visibly restore skin's natural support.
 
 Related to citric acid and used as a plasticizer, most commonly in nail polish and nail-hardening...
 
 An amino acid complex that functions as a skin-conditioning agent. There is no research proving it...
 
 Anything with a pH lower than 7 is considered acidic—above 7 is considered alkaline. Water has a pH...
 
 Soaps that often contain strong cleansing ingredients, they are often overly drying and...
 
 A synthetic ingredient used to enhance the texture of skincare and haircare products.
 
 A silicone-enhanced film-forming agent. Also functions as a binding agent so products adhere better...
 
 A synthetic polymer that blends stearth-20 with one or more forms of methacrylic acid. Functions as...
 
 Actinidia chinensis (kiwi fruit) extract is an excellent source of antioxidants, including vitamin C.
 
 Yeast-derived ingredient that functions as a good soothing and skin-restoring agent.
 
 Also known as AMP, adenosine phosphate is a skin-soothing and restoring ingredient that's similar to adenosine triphosphate.
 
 An organic compound from adenosine, which is formed by the hydrolysis of yeast nucleic acids. All...
 
 A synthetic polymer.
 
 Advanced glycation endproducts, also known as AGEs, are caused by the body's major fuel source, namely glucose.
 
 Agastache mexicana (also known as hyssop) is a flowering shrub native to North America that’s an edible plant with an anise-like flavor and aroma.
 
 Research shows this plant extract has antioxidant properties....
 
 AHA, also known as alpha hydroxy acid, exfoliates skin and improves signs of aging, dry skin and an uneven skin tone.
 
 Ahnfeltiopsis concinna extract is a type of red algae with calming and hydrating properties for skin.
 
 Found in egg white, and can leave a film over skin. It can constrict skin temporarily, which can...
 
 More technically known as aluminum chlorhydroxy allantoinate, alcloxa has constricting properties...
 
 A group of organic compounds with a vast range of forms and uses in cosmetics...
 
 Can be an antioxidant in skincare products…
 
 Algae are very simple, chlorophyll-containing organisms in a family that includes more than 20,000...
 
 Brown algae.
 
 Hydrocarbon contained in natural gas and mineral oils. It is a synthetic fluid with varying...
 
 Anything with a pH higher than 7 is alkaline; a pH below 7 is acidic. Water has a pH of 7; skin has...
 
 Identified on skin-care product labels as DEA, triethanolamine (TEA), and monoethanolamine (MEA),...
 
 By-product of uric acid extracted from urea and considered an effective skin-soothing and skin-conditioning agent.
 
 A synthetic, non-aqueous polymer whose chief function is film-forming agent.
 
 A mixture of the fatty acid and triglyceride components of several non-fragrant plant oils, including almond, borage, linseed, and olive.
 
 Non-volatile oil extracted from the seeds of almonds and used as an emollient.
 
 This form of aloe is the powder form of the aloe barbadensis leaf plant...
 
 There is no real evidence that aloe vera (Aloe barbadenis) helps the skin in any significant way....
 
 Emollient used in cosmetics that also has water-binding properties.
 
 Alpha isomethyl ionone is a fragrance ingredient that must be listed on products that contain it due to its risk of causing a sensitized reaction.
 
 Alpha lipoic acid is an enzyme that, when applied topically on skin, appears to be a very good antioxidant, and is believed to have numerous soothing effects.
 
 Alteromonas is found in deep areas of seawater.
 
 Latin name for the marshmallow plant.
 
 Aluminum oxide, which is used as an abrasive, a thickening agent, and an absorbent in cosmetics.
 
 Aluminum is the most common element on Earth. It's also a common source of confusion in terms of its presence in cosmetics, specifically whether that presence poses a health risk.
 
 A synthetic ingredient that functions as an opacifying agent. Secondary uses...
 
 Salt that has absorbent properties.
 
 Metallic element used as a coloring agent. It is composed of finely ground particles of aluminum....
 
 Salt that has absorbent and abrasive properties.
 
 Powdery thickening agent, absorbent, and anticaking agent used in cosmetics.
 
 The aluminum salt of stearic acid that functions as a thickening agent and helps stabilize products.
 
 It can sensitizing to skin.
 
 Fundamental constituents of all proteins found in the body.
 
 Amino acid that has water-binding properties and may provide soothing benefits for skin. It...
 
 Used to adjust pH in cosmetics.
 
 Aminomethyl propanol is a synthetic ingredient used in cosmetics as a pH adjuster.
 
 A synthetic polymer and film-forming agent that also serves to thicken cosmetic formulas...
 
 Alkaline salt used as a pH balancer in skincare products; it is not used in concentrations that...
 
 Synthetic form of glycolic acid used as a pH adjuster and exfoliant. It is sometimes paired with...
 
 Clear, colorless liquid used in cosmetics to adjust a product's pH level. Ammonium hydroxide is...
 
 Can be derived from coconut; used primarily as a detergent cleansing agent and is considered gentle...
 
 Can be derived from coconut; used primarily as a detergent cleansing agent and is considered gentle...
 
 Fragrant component.
 
 Fragrant component.
 
 Fragrant oil. It has no other known benefit for skin.
 
 Anastatica hierochuntica extract, also known as Rose of Jericho, has research showing it is a potent antioxidant and soothing ingredient.
 
 Extracted from the Brazilian mahogany tree; it has soothing properties (Source:...
 
 Volatile oil obtained from the angelica plant. The oil contains chemical constituents that can be...
 
 A natural, plant-derived ingredient that acts as a humectant to help skin absorb and retain moisture.
 
 Synthetic fragrance used in cosmetics.
 
 Also known as aniseed, it can have antioxidant properties...
 
 Natural plant colorant derived from the flesh surrounding the seed of Bixa orellana, a shrub native...
 
 Group of naturally occurring substances found in plants that give fruits, vegetables, and plants...
 
 General term for a large group of natural and synthetic ingredients that work to reduce...
 
 General name for various types of apples, all of which have potent antioxidant ability that, at least in theory, can benefit skin when applied topically.
 
 Often used as an abrasive agent in so-called "natural" scrubs. Apricot kernals have irregular and...
 
 Emollient plant oil pressed from the seeds of apricots, and similar to other nonfragrant plant oils.
 
 Derived from peanut oil and used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Waxy substance used as a thickening agent and emollient in cosmetics.
 
 A mild surfactant (cleansing) and emulsifying agent, made from...
 
 Waxy substance used as a thickening agent and emollient in cosmetics.
 
 Extract of the plant commonly known as the peanut. It can have emollient and skin soothing...
 
 Isolated from the leaves of the bearberry shrub, cranberry, blueberry, some...
 
 Argania spinosa kernel oil is the latin name for the oil expressed from the kernels of the argan tree.
 
 Non-fragrant plant oil expressed from the kernels of argan trees. Argan oil contains several beneficial lipids and fatty acids for skin...
 
 Amino acid that has antioxidant properties and can be helpful for soothing skin (Sources: Journal...
 
 Maqui, also known as Chilean wineberry, is a richly-colored berry that contains a potent type of antioxidant anthocyanidin known as delphinidins.
 
 Extract from the plant Arnica montana. There is research showing that when arnica is taken orally...
 
 Seeing "aroma/flavor" on an ingredient list can be either good or bad. For example, if the aroma or flavor comes from mint....
 
 Thickening agent; it has no known benefit for skin.
 
 Species of seaweed.
 
 Form of vitamin C that has antioxidant properties (Sources: Advances in Experimental Medicine and...
 
 Form of vitamin C that has little research showing it has the antioxidant or brightening...
 
 Ascorbyl glucoside is a stable form of vitamin C combined with glucose.When properly formulated and absorbed into...
 
 Form of vitamin C that is considered stable and that functions as an antioxidant and thickening...
 
 Stable and nonacidic form of vitamin C that is effective as an antioxidant (Source: Biochemical and...
 
 Extract derived from seaweed.
 
 Carotenoid (carotene pigment) found in plants, algae, and fish, particularly salmon, that functions...
 
 Latin name for the Chinese herb Huang-Qi, also known as milk vetch.
 
 A non-fragrant vegetable fat that's nearly solid at room temperature (much like dairy butter). It functions as an emollient ingreident that works to keep...
 
 A natural plant extract commonly used in Chinese and Korean herbal medicines.
 
 Also known as Chinese Thistle Daisy, this root extract is used in Chinese and Japanese alternative...
 
 See oatmeal, oat bran extract, gluten ingredients…
 
 Synthetic sunscreen ingredient (also known as Parsol 1789 and butyl methoxydibenzoylmethane) that...
 
 Emollient oil similar to other nonfragrant plant oils. It has antioxidant properties.
 
 English name for wild ginger.
 
 A type of acid known as a dicarboxylic acid derived from grains that offers numerous benefits when applied to skin.
 
 Azelaoyl bis-dipeptide-10 is a synthetic peptide built around naturally-derived azelaic acid that offers brightening and antioxidant benefits.
 
 Legumes that are often ground up for use in skincare scrub products.
 
 Chamomile extract used primarily as a coloring agent in cosmetics. It can have antioxidant and...
 
 Babassu oil comes from the seed of the Orbignya oleifera plant, which is native to Brazil.
 
 An antioxidant found in the seeds and leaves of the plant Psoralea corylifolia...
 
 Extract derived from a fragrant plant; it poses some risk of causing skin sensitivity…
 
 Fatty resin that when applied topically can cause skin sensitivity…
 
 Extract from the common bamboo plant. Like many plant extracts, research has shown...
 
 Extract from banana fruit that has some weak antioxidant properties (Source: Free Radical Research,...
 
 Plant whose primary component, berberine, is an alkaloid that can have soothing properties and...
 
 Barium sulfate is an inorganic salt that occurs in nature.
 
 Extract from barley plants. Can have antioxidant properties when ingested, but there is no research...
 
 Derived from glycerin and used as a stabilizing ingredient and skin-conditioning agent.
 
 Has the potential to provide antioxidant benefits for skin…
 
 Latin name Arctostaphylos uva ursi, there is research showing that this extract has soothing...
 
 Can have antioxidant properties (Source: Journal of Agricultural Food Chemistry, April 2001, pages...
 
 Substance made by bees to build the walls of their honeycomb. It is a thickening agent that has...
 
 Powdered base of the stem (root) of the Beta vulgaris plant. Used as a coloring agent. As with most...
 
 A synthetic or plant-derived derivative of polyethylene glycol and behenyl alcohol that functions as an emulsifier and can also be a surfactant.
 
 Fatty acid used as a thickening agent and surfactant.
 
 Skin-conditioning agent and emulsifier.
 
 Thickening agent used in cosmetics. It is not related to irritating forms of alcohol.
 
 Behenyl behenate is the wax-like ester of the fatty acid behenic acid and fatty alcohol behenyl alcohol.
 
 Type of clay that is used as an absorbent in cosmetics. It can be drying for skin, though its...
 
 Used as a preservative in skincare products. There is no research showing it...
 
 Also called oxybenzone, a sunscreen agent that protects skin primarily from the sun’s UVB rays and...
 
 Preservative used in skincare products; it is considered less sensitizing than some other forms of...
 
 Balsam resin that has some fragrant properties; it may also be sensitizing to skin…
 
 Group of compounds used in cosmetics as sunscreen agents to protect mostly from UVB radiation and...
 
 Compound used as a preservative in cosmetics. It is generally considered less sensitizing…
 
 Benzoyl peroxide is considered the most effective over-the-counter topical acne treatment. Learn more.
 
 An organic alcohol that occurs naturally in some fruits (apricots, cranberries) and teas.
 
 A volatile fragrance chemical with a sweet, floral odor used to impart scent to cosmetic products and perfumes.
 
 A volatile citrus oil that, when used topically, is a photosensitizer...
 
 Member of the carotenoid family. There are hundreds of carotenoids, including lycopene and lutein....
 
 Polysaccharide sugar derived from yeast or oats. It has some antioxidant properties and is a skin-soothing agent.
 
 Betaine is an ingredient that works to balance skin’s hydration.
 
 An ingredient derived from sugar beets that is sometimes used as an alternative to...
 
 Beta-sitosterol is a fatty acid-type ingredient derived from plants, and is similar to cholesterol...
 
 Betula alba juice is the sap from the birch tree.
 
 BHA, or beta hydroxy acid, is more commonly known as salicylic acid.
 
 Butylated hydroxytoluene, a potent synthetic antioxidant that also has negative properties when...
 
 Bifida ferment lysate is a probiotic ingredient derived from a specific type of yeast obtained by the fermentation of Bifida bacteria.
 
 Some research shows bilberry (vaccinium myrtillis) to be effective as an antioxidant when ingested...
 
 Diverse range of substances that are components of many fruits and vegetables. Many have been shown...
 
 A water-soluble substance produced in the body by certain types of...
 
 A blend of several B vitamins plus peptides derived from a strain of lab-produced yeast.
 
 Extract derived from the plant Betula alba (common name white birch). It can have potent...
 
 Can be extracted from chamomile or derived synthetically. It is an anti-irritant.
 
 Can be extracted from chamomile or derived synthetically. It is an skin-soothing ingredient.
 
 Also known as synthetic pearl, it’s the primary ingredient included in most powders that are referred to as...
 
 A synthetic skin conditioning agent and surfactant belonging to the chemical class of siloxanes and...
 
 A synthetic, colorless, silicone-based polymer that...
  
 Berries that have antioxidant properties...
 
 There is no research showing that black cohosh can have this or any effect…
 
 Non-volatile plant oil.
 
 When taken orally, this has antioxidant properties (Source: Journal of Agricultural Food...
 
 Extract that can have antioxidant properties, although it also may have harmful...
 
 Due to its arbutin content, this extract can have some value in improving the look of discolorations....
 
 It can cause significant skin sensitivity...
 
 Fruit that has antioxidant properties...
 
 Extract derived from seaweed; it can be an effective antioxidant and has water-binding properties...
 
 Also known as yarrow.
 
 Extract from a flowering plant. Animal studies have shown that this plant has strong...
 
 Fragrant oil that has no research showing it has benefit for skin (Source: www.naturaldatabase.com).
 
 Extract of the plant Borago officinalis, it can have skni-soothing properties...
 
 Non-fragrant plant oil that contains gamma linolenic acid and other essential fatty acids for skin.
 
 Group of compounds used in cosmetics in small quantities primarily as pH adjusters (they have a pH...
 
 Also known as sodium borate decahydrate, borax is a mineral composed of sodium, boron, oxygen, and...
 
 May have skin soothing and restoring benefits…
 
 Synthetic, inorganic powder, which in cosmetics has absorbent properties similar to those of...
 
 An extract from the gum resin of a tree and also a source of Indian frankincense, this plant extract has both positive and negative qualities for skin.
 
 General term for a large group of natural ingredients. Botanicals may or may not be organic, and...
 
 Berry that can have potent antioxidant properties (Source: Journal of Agricultural Food Chemistry,...
 
 Extract for which there is a small amount of research showing it can have antioxidant properties...
 
 Term that, when applied to sunscreen, refers to a sunscreen’s ability to protect the skin from both...
 
 Bromelain is an extract from the pineapple that contains, among other components, various...
 
 Technical name 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diol, a formaldehyde-releasing preservative (Source:...
 
 Mineral coloring agent derived from copper. Permanently listed (since 1977) by the FDA as a safe...
 
 Plant also known as summer lilac or butterfly bush (because the flowers are a food source for...
 
 Sunscreen ingredient that absorbs primarily UVB light.
 
 A plant used in Chinese medicine for a varitety of ailments ranging from the common cold to liver...
 
 Plant extract whose active constituents are skin soothing and antioxidant…
 
 Solvent used in nail polish and many other products.
 
 Commonly-used ingredient that has multiple functions in cosmetics, including....
 
 Parabens are a group of controversial preservatives that include butylparaben...
 
 Synthetic fragrance ingredient with a strong floral scent.
 
 Fruit from the karite tree, scientific name Butyrospermum parkii, from which the fat is obtained to...
 
 Butyrosperum parkii (shea) butter extract doesn’t just have a rich texture; it’s also a rich source of antioxidants and replenishing antioxidants.
 
 Blend of cholesterol and fatty acid ester from lanolin. Functions as a skin conditioning agent.
 
 C11-15 pareth-7 is a lightweight, synthetic mixture of fatty alcohols and polyethylene glycols that functions as an emulsifier and surfactant.
 
 Synthetic ingredient used as an emollient and texture enhancing agent in cosmetics.
 
 C12-16 pareth-9 is a lightweight, synthetic mixture of fatty alcohols and polyethylene glycols that functions as an emulsifier and surfactant.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 A petroleum-derived ingredient whose wax-like texture functions as a thickening or gelling agent.
 
 C13-15 alkane is a synthetic blend of alkanes that functions as a solvent.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Mixture of polyethylene glycols of various molecular weight that can function as stabilizing...
 
 Antioxidant that has multiple benefits for skin…
 
 Caffeine is the chief stimulant in beverages such as coffee and tea. It’s often included in skincare products with claims...
 
 Preparation of zinc carbonate, colored with ferric oxide (a form of rust). Zinc carbonate is a...
 
 Calcium aluminum borosilicate is a mineral-derived thickening agent often used in powders.
 
 Form of vitamin C; other forms include ascorbic acid, L-ascorbic acid, ascorbyl palmitate, and...
 
 Chalk; used as an absorbent in cosmetics.
 
 Calcium is an essential mineral for the body. A small amount of research shows calcium gluconate...
 
 Also known as pantothenic acid.
 
 Calcium PCA is the calcium salt of PCA (pyrrolidone carboxylic acid), which is a key component of skin’s natural moisturizing factor, or NMF.
 
 Extract derived from the plant commonly known as pot marigold, there is little research showing...
 
 Also known as heather extract, this plant has skin-soothing properties...
 
 Camellia japonica flower extract is also known as Tsubaki, Japanese camellia, common camellia.
 
 Aromatic substance obtained from the wood of a tree common to Southeast Asia, Cinnamomum camphora,...
 
 Fragrance used in cosmetics; it can be sensitizing to skin, much like ylang ylang.
 
 A natural mixture of polyglycerin-3, candelilla wax, jojoba seed wax, and rice bran wax...
 
 Extract derived from candelilla plants; used as a thickening agent and emollient to give products...
 
 Cannabidiol is one of the components of the Cannabis sativa and Cannabis indica plants.
 
 Plant lipid that has skin restoring and soothing properties…
 
 A mixture of fatty acids caproic acid and phytosphingosine.
 
 A mixture of fatty acids caproic acid and sphingosine.
 
  
 A synthetic or plant-derived signal peptide that’s said to help to boost the... 
 Derived from coconut oil and glycerin, it’s considered an excellent emollient and skin-replenishing ingredient.
 
 A naturally-derived (coconut and castor oil) or synthetic ingredient...
 
  
 A synthetic amino acid derivative that function as a conditioning agent or... 
 Capryloyl salicylic acid is a derivative (ester) of salicylic acid developed by L’Oreal.
 
 A synthetic ester blend of medium chain fatty acids and fatty alcohol that works as an emollient.
 
 Skin and hair conditioning agent that may be plant-derived or synthetic. Often used as part of a...
 
 Component of capsicum. When used topically, capsaicin can prevent the transmission of pain. It is...
 
 Large group of plants consisting primarily of the pepper family, including chili peppers and...
 
 Fatty resin derived from capsicum plants. It can be sensitizing to skin...
 
 Natural coloring agent.
 
 Group of thickening agents used primarily to create gel-like formulations.
 
 Plant of the ginger family, used as fragrance in cosmetics. Terpene, one of its major constituents,...
 
 Natural red color that comes from the dried female cochineal beetle. It is sometimes used to color...
 
 Natural, hard wax obtained from the leaves of palm trees. Used primarily as a thickening agent, but...
 
 Naturally occurring amino acid. Deficiencies of this small but essential component can result in...
 
 Component of rosemary that is an antioxidant...
 
 Composed of amino acids, it has soothing and antioxidant properties...
 
 Seaweed gum used in cosmetics as a thickening agent with water-binding properties.
 
 Emollient plant oil similar to other nonfragrant plant oils.
 
 Essential oil used as a flavoring agent and fragrance component in cosmetics. It can be a...
 
 Substance derived from milk protein that may have some antioxidant properties when applied...
 
 Cassia angustifolia seed polysaccharide is the polysaccharide portion derived from the seed of the Cassia angustifolium plant.
 
 A mix of esters formed by the reaction of castor seed oil, isostearic acid, and succinic acid. This ingredient functions...
 
 Vegetable oil derived from the castor bean. It is used in cosmetics as an emollient, though its...
 
 Enzyme that decomposes hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen and that has significant antioxidant...
 
 Fragrant plant extract. There is evidence that cedarwood oil is sensitizing...
 
 Fragrant oil that can aggravate skin...
 
 Primary fiber component of plants. Used in cosmetics as a thickening agent and to bind other...
 
 Any of various fibrous substances derived from plants. Cellulose gum is a natural ingredient..
 
 Extract of herb that may be listed on labels as asiatic acid, hydrocotyl, or gotu kola. It has...
 
 Phospholipid.
 
 See beeswax...
 
 One of several types of ceramides.
 
 Ceramides are naturally occurring, long chains of lipids (fats) that are major components of skin’s outer...
 
  Derived from clay, ceresin is a waxy ingredient used as a thickening agent in cosmetics. It can be...
 
 Fatty alcohol that is used to thicken cosmetics and keep ingredients mixed together and stable.
 
 A fatty alcohol that functions as an emulsifier and surfactant in cosmetics.
 
 Ceteareth-6 olivate is the ester of a fatty alcohol and fatty acids from olive oil.
 
 Fatty alcohol used as an emollient, emulsifier, thickener, and carrying agent for other...
 
 Oil-like liquid that functions as an emollient to prevent skin from losing moisture. Also...
 
 A blend of cetearyl alcohol and glucose that functions as an emulsifier.
 
 Cetearyl olivate is an ester of cetearyl alcohol and fatty acids from olive oil.
 
 A mixture of cetyl alcohol and acetic acid used as a skin-replenishing agent and emollient.
 
 Fatty alcohol used as an emollient, emulsifier, thickener, and carrying agent for other...
 
 Silicone polymer that functions as skin-conditioning agent.
 
 Synthetic wax used in cosmetics as a thickening agent and emollient.
 
 A mixture of cetyl alcohol and Hydroxyethylcellulose. It functions as thickener and stabilizing...
 
 The ester of cetyl palmitate and palmitic acid, this thickener and emollient helps smooth and condition dry skin while preventing moisture loss.
 
 Silicone that functions as a skin-conditioning agent and emulsifier.
 
 Ingredient derived from plant species Chamomilla recutita, Matricaria recutita, and Matricaria chamomilla...
 
 Primarily carbon substance formed by charring organic material in absence of oxygen. One...
 
 Primarily carbon substance formed by charring organic material in absence of oxygen...
 
 Any of numerous ingredients that bind with metal ions or metallic compounds, preventing them from...
 
 Also known as wild cherry and sweet cherry, cherry extract is a natural source of vitamin C.
 
 Derived from chitin, a polysaccharide found in the exoskeletons of shrimp, lobster, and crabs. It...
 
 Used as a preservative in cosmetics.
 
 Chemical compound used as a preservative and cleansing agent due to its action...
 
 Type of alcohol used as a preservative in cosmetics...
 
 Technical name for vitamin D.
 
 The surface of skin depends on the stratum corneum lipid matrix, which...
 
 Part of the vitamin B complex and a constituent of many other biologically important molecules,...
 
 Chondrus crispus, also known as red algae, is a type of seaweed that’s a rich source of many nutrients for skin.
 
 Earth mineral used as a coloring agent/additive and permanently listed (as of 1977) by the FDA for...
 
 Chrysanthellum indicum is a form of chamomile that, like other forms, has soothing properties when applied to skin.
 
 Can have soothing benefit for skin.
 
 Source of a plant extract with antioxidant properties (Source: Archives of Pharmaceutical Research,...
 
 Can have antioxidant properties when applied to skin...
 
 A volatile fragrance ingredient that contains extracts from cinnamon and balsam of Peru...
 
 Citrate buffer is a buffered mixture of sodium citrate and citric acid and is used in cosmetics as a pH adjuster.
 
 Extract derived from citrus and used primarily to adjust the pH of products to prevent them from...
 
 A volatile fragrance chemical extracted from geranium, rose, and other plants, citronellol has a characteristic grassy, citrus-like scent.
 
 Bitter apple; considered sensitizing to skin.
 
 Bitter orange extract. It can have antioxidant properties when eaten (Source: Journal of...
 
 Plant extract more commonly known as the satsuma. This medium-sized citrus fruit is native to...
 
 Used as fragrance; can be a skin sensitizer.
 
 Also known as Salvia sclarea, the extract from the clary sage plant (not to be confused with common sage leaf) has antioxidant properties, although it isn’t nearly as well researched as several other plant extracts with antioxidant benefits...
 
 Clitoria ternatea is a perennial herb more commonly known as butterfly pea because of the pea-shaped, wing-like flowers it produces.
 
 Potent skin sensitizer when applied repeatedly...
 
 Contains eugenol, which can be a skin sensitizer and cause photosensitivity.
 
 Both cocamide DEA (diethanolamine) and MEA (monoethanolamine) are widely used ingredients to thicken the water phase of cosmetics, keep ingredients blended, and boost foaming properties...
 
 One of the more gentle surfactants used in skincare products.
 
 An antistatic agent derived from coconut oil, though it may be produced synthetically, too...
 
 Mild surfactant.
 
 Ivy gourd is a fruit that acts as a natural skin-conditioning agent.
 
 Oil extracted from cocoa beans, used as an emollient and with properties similar to those of other...
 
 Can have antioxidant properties...
 
 Coco-caprylate is the mixture of esters that occur when the fatty alcohols derived from coconut alcohol reacts with the fatty acid caprylic acid.
 
 Coco caprylate/caprate functions as a lightweight emollient.
 
 A mixture of fatty alcohol from coconut and glucose. Chiefly functions as a cleansing agent. May be...
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Has degreasing and cleansing properties, which is why detergent cleansing agents are frequently...
 
 A natural mixture of fatty acid found in coconut oil primarily used as a cleansing agent.
 
 Non-volatile plant kernel oil that has emollient properties for skin.
 
 The extract of the fruit of the coconut tree, this ingredient is rich in skin-conditioning fatty acids, proteins, and complex B vitamins.
 
 Cocoyl proline is a mixture of coconut fatty acids and the amino acid proline,
 
 Also known as ubiquinone, it is a vitamin-like, fat-soluble substance present in skin....
 
 Coffee fruit extract is an excellent antioxidant when applied to skin, or consumed orally.
 
 The concentrated oil from the coffee bean plant, whichis green, not dark brown as this color doesn't occur until coffee beans are roasted. Research on this oil's effect on skin...
 
 Coffea arabica is the coffee plant, and there is research showing that coffee extract has...
 
 Member of the mint family and also known as forskolin; can be a skin sensitizer...
 
  
 Collagen amino acids are made from the hydrolylsis (breaking down with water) of protein... 
 Refers to ground-up silver suspended in solution.
 
 Several studies have shown that comfrey extract can have harmful properties when...
 
 Another name for echinacea; has soothing properties.
 
 Also known simply as copper, this mineral is an important trace element for human nutrition. The...
 
 An amino acid/mineral complex that limited yet potentially exciting research has shown...
 
 A synthetic skin-conditioning agent composed of the copper salt of PCA (Pyrrolidone Carboxylic...
 
 Copper peptides combine the element copper with three amino acids. Copper peptides occur naturally in the body, and are used in trace amounts to...
 
 Effective for soothing skin, but there is no research showing it has any impact when used...
 
 Herb and spice plant, the source of a fragrant component; it can be a potential skin sensitizer…
 
 Can have soothing properties for skin…
 
 Also known as wild mint; it can be sensitizing to skin…
 
 Emollient oil with properties similar to those of other nonfragrant plant oils (Source: British...
 
 Starch obtained from corn and sometimes used as an absorbent in cosmetics instead of talc.
 
 Organic compound found in plants and derived from the amino acid phenylalanine. It creates the...
 
 Extract of the cranberry fruit. Natural components known as proanthocyanidins are responsible for...
 
 Extract derived from the seed of this red berry; the oil (which is not red) has antioxidant...
 
 An amino acid found in the human body and most type of meat and fish. This ingredient serves as the...
 
 Non-irritating plant extract from the gourd family (think pumpkin) that’s often reputed to be...
 
 More commonly known as cantaloupe or honeydew melon, Cucumis melo is a fruit that is a rich source...
 
 Antioxidant spice that can be effective in soothing skin…
 
 Synthetic fragrant component in products; it can aggravate skin.
 
 One of the numerous forms of synthetic silicone
 
 Silicone with a drier finish than dimethicone.
 
 Lightweight silicone with a silky, slippery feel that functions as a skin/hair conditioning agent.
 
 According to the FDA, D&amp;C is an identification that indicates a coloring agent has been approved as...
 
 General term for a wide group of color additives that are approved for use in drugs and cosmetics...
 
 There is no research showing this extract has any benefit for skin. Also known as tansy, it can...
 
 Antioxidant that's considered the most optimal form of vitamin E.
 
 Also known as wild carrot. It can have antioxidant properties, but applied topically it can cause...
 
 Used as an emulsifying agent, which is a group of ingredients essential to most cosmetic...
 
 A synthetic glycol that functions as a skin-conditioning agent.
 
 Used as a gentle detergent cleansing agent.
 
 A skin-conditioning agent derived from the esters of decyl alcohol and oleic acid.
 
 A synthetic preservative uses in amounts of 0.6% or less. Sometimes its salt form (known as sodium...
 
 Filtered water used in cosmetics. All water used in cosmetic formulations goes through this process...
 
 Denatured alcohol is a drying type of alcohol that aggravates and weakens skin...
 
 Polysaccharide that has water-binding properties for skin.
 
 Carbohydrate that is classified as a polysaccharide. It is used as an adhesive when mixed with...
 
 Light-colored porous rock composed of the skeletons of minute sea creatures called diatoms....
 
 Water-soluble preservative.
 
 Also known as DBP, it is a common ingredient in nail polish and most synthetic fragrances sold...
 
 An emollient ingredient that may be derived from synthetic or animal sources. It spreads easily and...
 
 A mix of portions from cetyl alcohol and phosphoric acid that functions as surfactant and emulsifier.
 
 A synthetic oil-like ester that functions as a skin-conditioning agent and emollient. Also used in...
 
 Emollient and skin-conditioning agent derived from the solvent ethyl hexanediol.
 
 An ester that functions as an antioxidant and helps defend cosmetics products from chemical or physical deterioration...
 
 A synthetic ingredient that functions as an emulsifier...
 
 Ingredient present in all self-tanners that affects the color of skin. Derived from sugar, it...
 
 Used as a film-forming agent, emollient, and skin-conditioning agent.
 
 A synthetic ester that functions as a skin-conditioning agent and emollient.
 
 Emollient in the silicone family.
 
 A synthetic ester that functions as an emollient and skin-conditioning agent. May be animal-derived.
 
 Diisostearyl malate is an ester that functions as an emollient...
 
 Diisostearyl polyglyceryl-3 dimer dilinoleate is an emollient blend of fatty acids often used in cosmetics to enhance coverage.
 
 A mixture of fatty acids and a fatty alcohol. This synthetic ingredient...
 
 A type of silicone, dimethicone is one of the most frequently used emollient ingredients in moisturizers due to its gentleness...
 
 A mixture of the silicone dimethicone with PEG-10 and PEG-15.
 
 Silicone derivative used as a stabilizing or suspending agent or as a thickener.
 
 Functions as a stabilizer and solvent in cosmetics.
 
 Colorless gas used as a propellant in aerosol products. It is potentially harmful if inhaled…
 
 A solvent derived from the sugar sorbitol...
 
 Mixture of fatty acids used as an emollient and thickening agent.
 
 Dipeptide-2 is a small, less complex synthetic peptide made up of the amino acids tryptophan and valine.
 
  
 A synthetic salt that helps to adjust and maintain the pH of water-based and... 
 Derivative of myristyl alcohol (a fatty alcohol) and adipic acid (a buffering and neutralizing...
 
 A synthetic slip agent and texture enhancer.
 
 Mild detergent cleansing agent.
  
 A cleansing agent derived from coconut.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Short for disodium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid. Used as a chelating agent...
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 A mild surfactant.
 
 A complex mixture of esters formed from a blend of tocopherol phosphates with lauriminodipropionic...
 
 A water-soluble derivative of the bioflavinoid rutin...
 
 Used as a suspending agent, often with pigments.
 
 Formaldehyde-releasing preservative...
 
 There is a small amount of research showing that dogwood has antioxidant and soothing...
 
  
 A type of micro-algae that’s known for being adaptable and able to survive even in harsh natural conditions. It’s a rich source... 
 A tropical fruit that contains high levels of antioxidants such as caffeic acid and quercetin
 
 Extract derived from a species of algae (Durvillea antarctica).
 
 Sunscreen ingredient that provides UVA protection...
 
 A novel, non-fragrant plant oil that's a rich source of saturated fatty acids...
 
 An annual plant common to Korea, Eclipta prostrata has potent antioxidant and skin-calming properties.
 
 Ectoin is a synthetic ingredient that serves as an emollient on skin and can also have a buffering effect in cosmetic formulas.
 
 Acronym for ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, a stabilizer used in cosmetics to prevent ingredients...
 
 Egg yolk is mostly water and lipids (fats), especially cholesterol, which makes it a good emollient...
 
 Fatty acid derived from salmon oil; it is a good emollient and replenishing ingredient for skin.
 
 Also known as black elderberry or Sambucus nigra, this plant has potent antioxidant properties...
 
 Latin name Inula helenium; it is a plant that can be very sensitizing to the skin...
 
 Potent antioxidant compound found in pomegranate and most berries.
 
 Also known as amla, the fruit extract from gooseberry is among the richest plant sources of antioxidants.
 
 Supple, waxlike, lubricating, thickening agents that prevent water loss and have a softening and...
 
 When it comes to cosmetics, an emulsifier refers to any ingredient that helps keep unlike...
 
 The emu (Dromaius novaehollandiae) is a large, flightless bird indigenous to Australia. The oil...
 
 Plant extract that can be a skin sensitizer due to its stimulant and astringent (skin-constricting) properties.
 
 Ensulizole is a water soluble sunscreen ingredient that works in the UVB range, offering no UVA protection.
 
 Extract from green algae.
 
 Occurrence that takes place at an atomic level and is a complex physiological process. Molecules...
 
 Vast group of protein , produced by all living things, that act as catalysts in chemical...
 
 One of the constituents of green tea believed to be responsible for its many health...
 
 Extract derived from a plant commonly known as fireweed or willow herb...
 
 Epilobium fleischeri, also known as Alpine willowherb, is a plant extract has documented skin-calming and antioxidant benefits
 
 Technical name for vitamin D.
 
 A substance derived from animal tissue or various types of mushrooms that has potent antioxidant...
 
 Substance chemically similar to the self-tanning agent dihydroxyacetone. Depending on your skin...
 
 Component of horse chestnut, it is considered harmful and is not recommended for skin...
 
 A compound formed from the reaction between an alcohol and an acid via the elimination of water....
 
 Trade name for a combination form of vitamin C that contains mainly calcium ascorbate, but in...
 
 A synthetic, viscous alcohol that functions as a solvent and can also be...
 
 A synthetic skin-conditioning agent used as a preservative or as a carrier or suspending agent for...
 
 A natural ester of skin-conditioning fatty acids derived from olive oil. It can have an occlusive effect on skin.
 
 A mixture of a fatty alcohol and palmitic acid that functions as an emollient.
 
 Mixture of fatty acids from macadamia nut oil.
 
  
 Parabens are a group of controversial preservatives that include butylparaben... 
 Flavoring agent derived from vanilla. It has antioxidant properties (Source: Journal of...
 
 Extract that may have beneficial properties on the skin...
 
 Fragrant plant oil whose active constituents are found in the leaves and the oil obtained from...
 
 Fragrance chemical that occurs naturally in some plant ingredients...
 
 Euterpe oleracea (acai) sterols are the sterol portion derived from the acai plant.
 
 Can have significant soothing and emollient benefits for skin.
 
 A species of Asian tree whose fragrant fruit functions as a good soothing agent in...
 
 Type of coloring agent. According to the FDA (www.fda.gov), when Ext. D&amp;C is followed by a color,...
 
 A plant; although the name sounds like it would be beneficial for the eye area, there are no...
 
 A type of yeast.
 
 Extract of plants that is used in cosmetics primarily for fragrance. A few animal studies and some...
 
 Substance typically found in plant and animal lipids (fat). Fatty acids include compounds such as...
 
 Made from fatty acids; fatty alcohols are used in cosmetics as thickening agents and emollients....
 
 Type of coloring agent. According to the FDA, when FD&amp;C is followed by a color, the color is...
 
 General term for any color additive deemed to be safe and FDA-approved for use in foods, drugs, and...
 
 Volatile, fragrant oil that can cause skin sensitivity.
 
 Can have antioxidant properties, but on skin it can be a skin sensitizer (Source:...
 
 Inorganic salt of ferric ferrocyanide. 
 
 Also known as Iron Blue, a coloring agent used in cosmetic products, including those designed for...
 
 A plant-based antioxidant. Research suggests that it provides antioxidant...
 
 A plant that can be very soothing but also potentially sensitizing to the skin...
 
 Type of protein found in the skin....
 
 Fig is a rich source of a class of antioxidants known as phenolic compounds.
 
 Also known as Nakai, the root of this plant extract has been shown to be an antioxidant…
 
 Large group of ingredients that are typically found in hair-care products, but that are also widely...
 
 Extract from the Epilobium angustifolium plant; also known as willow herb.
 
 Volatile, fragrant oil that can cause skin sensitivity.
 
 May have water-binding properties, but there is no research showing that this has any benefit for...
 
 According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the term "flavor" on a product label signifies...
 
 Plant source of linen and edible seeds. Flax seeds and seed oil have antioxidant properties...
 
 From seeds of the flax plant; a source of fatty acids, particularly omega-3.
 
 One of a number of synthetic fragrant components.
 
 Part of the B-vitamin complex; when taken orally, it is a good antioxidant. That benefit has not...
 
 Common type of preservative found in cosmetics...
 
 Strawberry’s red color comes from its high amount of antioxidant compounds known as anthocyanins.
 
 One or a blend of volatile and/or fragrant plant oils (or synthetically derived oils) that impart...
 
 Fragrant component used in skincare products; it can be a skin sensitizer...
 
 Often called fruit sugar, fructose is a type of sugar composed of glucose. It has water-binding...
 
 Fucus vesiculosus extract, also known as bladderwrack, is a type of brown algae (seaweed) that is edible.
 
 Mineral substance that is similar to kaolin (a clay). Composed mainly of alumina, silica, iron...
 
 Polysaccharide extracted from the western larch tree.
 
 Fragrant substance that, because of its resin and volatile oil content, can be extremely sensitizing…
 
 Fatty acid used in cosmetics as an emollient and antioxidant. GLA is considered to...
 
 Ganoderma lucidum is a species of mushroom also known as Reishi mushroom that, when applied to skin, can visibly reduce some types of discoloration.
 
 Mangosteen is a fruit with a sweet and sour flavor and is native to several Asian countries.
 
 Flower extract used in cosmetics to impart fragrance; also functions as an antioxidant (Source:...
 
 Protein obtained from plants or animals and used in cosmetics as a thickening agent.
 
 A plant-derived, high-weight, polysaccharide texture enhancer that also...
 
 Extract derived from a type of algae.
 
 Plant component (most often from soy) that is a rich source of antioxidants, though it can also be...
 
 Part of the gentian plant, constituents of which are soothing to skin...
 
 A volatile fragrance ingredient extracted from geranium, geraniol is capable of causing sensitivity when applied to skin.
 
 Extract that can have potent antioxidant properties (Source: Phytomedicine, June 2000, pages...
 
 Fragrant oil that can have beneficial properties but also can be a skin sensitizer...
 
 Geranium plant.
 
 Trade name for diazolidinyl urea.
 
 Extract from a plant in the Zingiberacae family that has research showing it has soothing...
 
 Potent antioxidant and soothing ingredient.
 
 Ginseng is a popular herbal supplement. When applied topically it delivers antioxidant benefits, boosts hydration, and helps visibly improve signs of skin aging.
 
 Main ingredient in licorice extract. It has soothing properties. There is research showing...
 
 Glucomannan is prebiotic sugar that combines the simples sugars mannose with glucose.
 
 A form of glucosamine, an amino sugar that can be considered a skin-restorative...
 
 Monosaccharide that has water-binding properties for skin.
 
 Glucose oxidase is an enzyme that catalyzes the oxidation of the sugar glucose.
 
 Glucosylceramides are responsible for the healthy formation and appearance of skin’s upper layers.
 
 A water-soluble form of hesperidin, a flavonoid found in many citrus plants, as well as evening primrose oil. It has potential as an antioxidant...
 
 Glutamic acid is an amino acid that helps aid skin hydration.
 
 Can help improve the function of skin...
 
 Powerful, non-enzymatic antioxidant which naturally occurs in the skin.
 
 Gluten is a protein that occurs naturally in many types of grains, including wheat, rye, and barley.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Also called glycerol or glycerine, glycerin is present in all natural lipids (fats), whether animal or vegetable.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 A vitamin C derivative, it serves as an antioxidant in skincare products.
 
 A simple mixture of glycerin and the naturally-occuring fatty acid behenic acid. Glyceryl behenate...
 
 An ester emollient of fatty acid behenic acid...
 
 A mixture of esters of glycerin, along with behenic and eicosadioic acids, its works as a thickener and stabilizing agent in makeup and skincare products.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 A complex mixture of glycerin and the naturally-occurring fatty acid behenic acid. Glyceryl...
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Large group of ingredients that are composed of fats and oils. At room temperature, the fats are...
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 A blend of glycerin and polymethacrylic acid that functions as a film-forming agent. It has a...
 
 An ester of long chain acids derived from a plant-based ingredient known as rosin.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Glyceryl stearate citrate is an ester of citric acid and glyceryl stearate.
 
 Widely used ingredient that is a self-emulsifying (that’s what the “SE” stands for) form of...
 
 Oil derived from wild soybeans; it has emollient properties.
 
 A sterol is a solid complex alcohol derived from animals and plants. In this case, the sterols are...
 
 Polysaccharide that has water-binding properties for skin.
 
 A type of alpha hydroxy acid (AHA) that, like other ingredients in the category, can act as a water-binding agent and, when properly formulated, as an exfoliant...
 
 Type of lipid composed of sugar (monosaccharide) and fat (lipid) that forms an important component...
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent.
 
 Glycoproteins are a type of peptide naturally present in skin's surface that works with other ingredients to reinforce skin's barrier strength.
 
 Also known as mucopolysaccharides; these are a fundamental component of skin and are...
 
 Extract from licorice that has skin-soothing properties…
 
 One of the components of licorice root extract...
 
 This bright, warm red berry, native to Asia, is a very good source of antioxidant compounds.
 
 An ingredient that seems luxe and helpful but is actually a frequent contact sensitizer…
 
 Also known as cotton seed oil, this non-fragrant plant oil may cause...
 
 Citrus oil whose volatile components (chiefly substances known as furocoumarins) are sensitizing...
 
 Typically listed as citrus grandis (grapefruit) peel extract on the ingredient list...
 
 Labelled as Citrus paradisi (grapefruit) seed extract, this is often claimed as a natural preservative...
 
 Grape seed extract has been shown to help diminish free-radical damage…
 
 Emollient, non-fragrant plant oil that also has excellent antioxidant properties...
 
 Significant amounts of research have established that tea, including black, green, and white tea...
 
 Herb that contains two and a half times more caffeine than coffee. It can have constricting...
 
 Plant-derived thickening agent...
 
 Guava extract is a rich source of bioactive antioxidants including gallic acid, quercetin, and tocopherol.
 
 Substances that have water-binding properties, but that are used primarily as thickening agents in...
 
 Tannin that is found in witch hazel. It can be a skin sensitizer but it also has antioxidant...
 
 Extract derived from a water plant also known as blue algae. In pure concentrations this extract...
 
 Plant extract that, due to its constricting effect on skin, can be sensitizing There is no...
 
 Oil extracted from the hazelnut and that is used as an emollient.
 
 A type of clay used in cosmetics that enhances texture by imparting a smooth, silky feel.
 
 Synthetic fragrant component in products, which also can be a skin sensitizer.
 
 Helianthus annuus (sunflower) seed oil is a non-volatile, non-fragrant plant oil used as an emollient in cosmetics.
 
 From the hemp plant, Cannabis sativa.
 
 Flavonoid found in various plants such as citrus and evening primrose oil. It has potential as a...
 
 Citrus bioflavonoid often seen in products claiming to improve dark undereye circles. There is...
 
 Hexanoyl dipeptide-3 norleucine acetate is a synthetic peptide that helps skin’s surface shed properly and speeds up surface renewal for fresher-looking skin.
 
 A fragrance ingredient used in many perfumes and often seen in fragranced skincare products...
 
 A synthetic, non-drying fatty alcohol used as an emollient and skin-conditioning agent.
 
 Skin-softening agent and emollient that is a mixture of hexyl alcohol and lauric acid.
 
 A synthetic ingredient that has been shown to have skin brightening ability but there is very limited research about it on skin...
 
 Fragrant plant
 
 Extract of a species of algae.
 
 Also known as sea buckthorn, seaberry is a good source of vitamin C as well as various B vitamins, vitamin E.
 
 A mushroom that grows underground on the roots of pines and other trees around the world. It has...
 
 FDA-approved sunscreen active ingredient that primarily provides UVB protection. Its UVA range is...
 
 Substance produced by bees from the nectar of flowering plants. Composed primarily of the...
 
 Plant extract that functions as a soothing agent. It is a very good source of flavonoids...
 
 There is no research showing that hops have any benefit for skin. However, components in hops may...
 
 May have soothing properties for skin...
 
 Plant that can sensitize skin and should never be applied to abraded skin.
 
 Plant extract that has antioxidant and soothing properties, but there's no solid research showing it can and does exert these effects...
 
 No research shows this plant as having any benefit for skin although it and other plant components...
 
 Component of skin that is used in skincare products as a good restorative ingredient....
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Skin-conditioning agent derived from didecene, which is a hydrocarbon. Hydrocarbons are organic...
 
 When a plant oil is hydrogenated, it is chemically converted gas from a liquid to a semi-solid or...
 
 Palm glycerides are the fatty acid component of palm oil. When a plant oil is hydrogenated, it is...
 
 Synthetic polymer that functions as an emollient and skin-conditioning agent.
 
 Synthetic polymer used as a skin-conditioning agent and emollient.
 
 Non-fragrant plant oil from soy that has been hydrogenated so it retains a semi-solid rather than liquid state.
 
  
 The end product of hydrolyzing starch, a polysaccharide carbohydrate... 
 A hydrogenated blend of vegetable glycerides that functions chiefly as an emollient and emulsifier in cosmetics...
 
 There is a great deal of current research showing that hydrogen peroxide is problematic as a...
 
 The extract from the seed of the Acacia macrostachya plant, a tropical shrub.
 
 The hydrolyzed form of algae extract, and a rich source of polysaccharides for skin.
 
 A form of the natural absorbent corn starch that has been hydrolyzed, which means it has undergone...
 
 When applied to skin, arugula is a good source of antioxidants and minerals to help defend skin from environmental damage.
 
 A skin-restorative ingredient that has been hydrolyzed, which is a chemical process involving the...
 
 Essential fatty acids from the jojoba plant, broken down by water to form a new complex with...
 
 Protein fraction of seeds from the jojoba plant that has been hydrolyzed, which is a chemical...
 
 Hydrolyzed pumpkin seedcake is a plant-derived ingredient that protects skin from moisture loss to support firmness.
 
 Hydrolyzed rhodophycea is a type of red algae that, like most other types used in skin care products, helps improve skin’s hydration.
 
 Composed of various protein substances derived from vegetables and broken down by water to form a...
 
 Protein fraction from wheat that has been hydrolyzed, which is a chemical process involving the...
 
 Hydroxyacetophenone is a synthetic antioxidant and skin-conditioning ingredient.
 
 A polymer that functions as a stabilizer, thickening agent, and opacifying agent.
 
 Plant-derived thickening agent typically used as a binding agent or emulsifier. Also used (most...
 
 Also known by the acronym HEPES, hydroxyethylpiperazine ethane sulfonic acid is a buffering ingredient typically used to...
 
  
 A synthetic ingredient that serves to hydrate skin and help maintain a normal... 
  
 A plant- derived or synthetic carbohydrate that functions as a chelating agent and... 
 A plant-based or synthetic starch ingredient that functions as a thickener or bulking agent in cosmetics...
 
 A synthetic antioxidant similar to coenzyme Q10. Idebenone got a lot of press as the best...
 
 Illite is a mineral-sourced natural thickener that is sometimes referred to as French green clay.
 
 Considered a weaker preservative than its "cousin" diazolidinyl urea because it is beneficial against...
 
 The list of inactive ingredients is the part of an ingredient label that is not regulated by the...
 
 Major component of lecithin that may have water-binding properties for skin. It is not a vitamin,...
 
 A synthetic preservative that is typically used in concentrations of 0.1% or less. It is very...
 
 Type of red algae.
 
 Compounds of iron that are used as colorings in some cosmetics. They also are used as a metal...
 
 Iron powder is, as the name states, a powdered versoin of the mineral iron. A natural ingredient, it's used as an opacifying agent in cosmetics.
 
 Isoamyl cocoate, an ester of isoamyl alcohol and coconut acid, works as a lightweight, fast-absorbing emollient and skin softener in skin care.
 
 The ester of isoamyl alcohol and lauric acid, this plant- or synthetic-based texture-enhancing ingredient feels velvety-soft.
 
 Parabens are a group of controversial preservatives that include butylparaben...
 
 Hydrocarbon ingredient used as a solvent. Isododecane enhances the spreadability of products and...
 
 Plant derivative with antioxidant properties...
 
 Used as a detergent cleansing agent, emulsifier, and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 An ester that functions as a skin-conditioning agent. Occurs naturally in cocoa and lavender oil.
 
 The ester of isopropyl alcohol and isostearic acid. It is used as a skin-conditioning agent and emollient in cosmetics products...
 
 Derived from lanolin, it is used in cosmetics as a thickening agent and emollient.
 
 Texture enhancer and emollient as used in cosmetics.
 
 Texture enhancer and emollient as used in cosmetics. It can potentially be...
 
 A synthetic or animal-derived ingredient used as a surface treatment for cosmetic pigments...
 
 A synthetic, silicone-enhanced polymer that occurs from combining isopropyl titanium triisostearate...
 
 Used as a surfactant, water-binding agent, and thickening agent.
 
 Fatty acid used as a binding agent and thickener.
 
 Plant extract that can be sensitizing due to its astringent (skin-constricting) properties.
 
 Vegetable wax obtained from sumac berries, and used as a thickening agent and emollient in...
 
 Fragrant oil, often used as a source of perfume, that can be a skin sensitizer...
 
 The fattiest portion of jojoba oil, used as an intensive emollient.
 
 Jojoba esters are a mixture of esters from jojoba oil and hydrogenated jojoba oil that are used as emollients, occlusives, or as scrub particles in cosmetics.
 
 Emollient, non-fragrant oil (technically, a polyunsaturated wax) extracted from the seeds of a perennial shrub.
 
 Semi-solid portion of jojoba oil.
 
 Fragrant plant extract that poses a strong risk of skin sensitization.
 
 Asian plant extract that has soothing properties and may also provide other benefits...
 
 Can have sothing properties for skin…
 
 Naturally occurring clay mineral (silicate of aluminum) that is used in cosmetics for its absorbent...
 
 Extract of the Piper methysticum plant that has soothing properties, but can...
 
 Extract of African plant commonly known as the sausage tree. The African lore about this extract is...
 
 As a food, kiwi has significant antioxidant properties that may even be greater than those of...
 
 By-product of the fermentation process of malting rice for use in the manufacture of sake, Japanese...
 
 A mixture of kojic acid and palmitic acid. It functions as a skin-conditioning agent and antioxidant...
 
 One of the major components of the kola nut is caffeine, which in high amounts can be a skin sensitizer...
 
 Source of isoflavone, genistein, and daidzein, all plant estrogens..
 
 Non-volatile oil from a plant native to Hawaii; it has emollient properties for skin (Source:...
 
 Alpha hydroxy acid extracted from milk, although most forms used in cosmetics are synthetic. It...
 
 Lactobacillus/rye flour ferment is a non-living probiotic made by fermenting rye flour with the microorganism Lactobacillus that’s used to create sourdough bread.
 
 Lactobacillus ferment is a lab-created, non-living probiotic ingredient made by fermentation of the microorganism Lactobacillus.
 
 Polysaccharide that has water-binding properties for skin.
 
 Enzyme derived from milk; it has purifying benefits for skin and may be helpful for...
 
 Extract for which there is a great deal of research showing it has many applications...
 
 No research shows this plant as having any benefit for skin...
 
 The Latin name for a species of kelp, also known as brown seaweed. Applied topically, it helps...
 
 A species of the nettle plant that is used topically as as a soothing ingredient...
 
 Emollient, very thick substance derived from sheep. Lanolin has long been...
 
 Emollient derived from lanolin.
 
 Form of vitamin C that is a potent antioxidant and skin-soothing agent...
 
 Mild detergent cleansing agent.
 
  Derived from lauryl alcohol and used either as a surfactant or emulsifier (or, in many cases, as...
 
 Derived from lauryl alcohol and used either as a surfactant or emulsifier (or, in many cases, as...
 
 A form of lauryl alcohol (a non-irritating fatty alcohol derived from coconut oil) that can...
 
 Substances that in various combinations create a wide range of mild detergent cleansing agents...
 
 One of several fatty acids found in coconut oil and other natural fats.
 
 Amino acid derivative that functions as a skin- and hair-conditioning agent. It also contributes to...
 
 Mixture of lauryl alcohol and lactic acid that functions as a skin-conditioning agent and...
 
 An ester of lauryl alcohol and lauric acid...
 
 A silicone polymer that has multiple functions in cosmetic products, including skin/hair...
 
 Essential oil of the hybrid lavender plant Lavandula hybrida and used in cosmetics as a fragrance...
 
 In-vitro research indicates that components of lavender oil, specifically linalool and linalyl acetate, can have...
 
 Phospholipid found in egg yolks and may be plant or animal derived. It is widely used in...
 
 Potent skin sensitizer. Though it can have beneficial properties...
 
 Extract that can have beneficial properties...
 
 Also known as Oil of Verbena; can be effective as a mosquito repellent...
 
 The juice from the citrus fruit lemon, often touted in the world of skin care as being a natural option for brightening skin.
 
 Commonly used citrus oil that can be a skin sensitizer, especially on abraded skin.
 
 Extract that functions as a skin-conditioning agent and likely has antioxidant benefit, too.
 
 Extract from the shiitake mushroom that may have antioxidant properties...
 
 Edelweiss is a plant extract whose constituents are capable of providing antioxidant and skin-soothing benefit for skin.
 
 Amino acid.
 
 Leuconostoc/radish root ferment filtrate is a preservative created by fermenting Raphanus sativus (radish) roots.
 
 Plant extract that has skin-soothing properties. In addition, licorice root may be effective in...
 
 Extract derived from the white lily bulb. There is no research showing this has any benefit for...
 
 Citrus fruit whose volatile compounds are sensitizing...
 
 Plant commonly known as meadowfoam; its seed oil is a non-volatile plant oil used as a...
 
 Limnanthes alba (meadowfoam) seed oil is a non-fragrant, edible plant oil originally developed as an agricultural crop in the 1950s.
 
 Chemical constituent of many natural fragrant ingredients, notably citrus oils such as lemon (d-limonene) and...
 
 Fragrant component of lavender and coriander that can be a skin sensitizer, or...
 
 Major constituents in linden are flavonoids and glycosides. Flavonoids are potent...
 
 Unsaturated fatty acid used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics. There is some...
 
 Linolenic acid is a naturally-occurring, colorless polyunsaturated fatty acid liquid...
 
 Linum usitastissimum (linseed) seed oil is more commonly known as flaxseed oil.
 
 Wide range of ingredients found in plants, animals, and human skin. Lipids include fatty acids,...
 
 Delivery system (not an ingredient) capable of holding other ingredients and releasing them after...
 
 Synthetic silica-based clay composed of lithium, sodium, and magnesium. Used as a thickening agent...
 
 Also known as gromwell, the root of this plant is believed to have antioxidant and...
 
 Honeysuckle extract. A plant with soothing properties for skin.
 
 Extract derived from a subtropical flower that has antioxidant properties similar to...
 
 Extract that can have soothing and antioxidant properties...
 
 In cosmetics, it is used as a fragrance....
 
 Legume that is a source of isoflavones with antioxidant properties.
 
 Extract of Lupinus albus, a legume; it has emollient and antioxidant properties.
 
 Lupinus albus (white lupine) seed oil is a non-fragrant plant oil whose unsaturated fatty acid content consists primarily of oleic and erucic acids.
 
 Species of legume.
 
 Carotenoid that has antioxidant properties…
 
 The extract of the fruit commonly known as goji, goji berry, or wolfberry. This fruit extract is an antioxidant...
 
 Carotenoid pigment that has potent antioxidant properties…
 
 Amino acid.
 
 Lysine HCI plays a role in keeping skin hydrated and helping it look smooth and youthful.
 
 Used in cosmetics as an emollient for dry skin.
 
 One of four principal bioactive compounds in the plant extract Centella asiatica.
 
 Earth mineral that has strong absorbent properties and some disinfecting properties…
 
 Powdery, dry-feeling, white solid that is used as a thickening agent and powder in cosmetics.
 
 Fatty acid-based derivative of vitamin C that can be an effective antioxidant. There is some...
 
 Form of vitamin C that is considered stable and an effective antioxidant for skin (Sources:...
 
 Magnesium aspartate is the magnesium salt of aspartic acid that plays a role in maintaining proteins in skin.
 
 Inorganic mineral salt used as an absorbent, opacifying agent, coloring agent, or to adjust the pH...
 
 Active ingredient in milk of magnesia. It is an absorbent and has disinfectant properties for skin.
 
 Mild detergent cleansing agent.
 
 Mild detergent cleansing agent.
 
 Magnesium palmitoyl glutamate is an amino acid (glutamic acid) and mineral (magnesium) blend that conditions and softens skin.
 
 Magnesium PCA is the magnesium salt of PCA (pyrrolidone carboxylic acid), which is part of skin’s intercellular matrix.
 
 Used as a thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Commonly known as Epsom salt, a magnesium salt used as a texture enhancer.
 
  
 A plant extract known as Orgeon grape... 
 Malic acid is an exfoliating ingredient derived from unripe fruit.
 
 Can be used as a texture enhancer in cosmetics and may have soothing...
 
 Acerola fruit extract is a potent source of antioxidants and hydrating polysaccharides.
 
 A plant-based sugar created by hydrolyzing a saccharide with starch from corn, potato, or rice.
 
  
 A carbohydrate polysaccharide that’s naturally-derived and then combined... 
 Extract from plants of the Malvaceae family, which includes over 1,000 species, found in tropical...
 
 Extract from the blue mallow flower, it may have some soothing properties for...
 
 Primarily used as a fragrance; it can be a skin sensitizer. There is no research showing it has any...
 
 A type of alpha hydroxy acid (AHA), also known as amygdalic acid. There’s some research showing mandelic acid is an effective exfoliant, although it’s not as effective as glycolic acid due to its larger size...
 
 Mineral found in trace amounts in tissues of the body. While manganese plays a vital role in the...
 
 Coloring agent/additive permanently listed (as of 1976) by the FDA for use in cosmetic products,...
 
 More commonly known as mango butter, this ingredient is a very good plant-based...
 
 Extract derived from the mango tree; it can have antioxidant properties (Source: Journal of...
 
 Mannitol is a plant-derived or lab-made sugar that works in skin care to bind moisture and condition.
 
 Extract derived from the New Zealand tea tree; the oil is similar to that of the Australian tea...
 
 Fruit that has potent antioxidant properties.
 
 Herb with a fragrant component used in cosmetics; can be a skin sensitizer…
 
 A flowering plant native to Africa that has soothing effects...
 
 Abbreviation for monoethanolamine.
 
 Extract that can have skin-soothing properties...
 
 There is no research showing that this oil, which is derived from a plant in the same family as the...
 
 The chinaberry is a popular plant throughout India, where use of every part of the plant can be seen in the practice of Ayurvedic medicine.
 
 Latin term for the extract from the leaf of the neem plant.
 
 Saccharide that can have good water-binding properties.
 
 Derived from peppermint; menthol can have the same sensitizing effect as peppermint on skin…
 
 Major constituent of peppermint.
 
 Synthetic derivative of menthol. It is known to produce effects that are twice as strong as...
 
 Also known as meradimate, this is a synthetic sunscreen active is a partially effective UVA...
 
 Used as a cooling agent and fragrance in cosmetics. It is a derivative of menthol and is supposed...
 
 One of the simpler silicones due to its less complex molecular structure.
 
 In combination with methylisothiazolinone, it goes by the trade name Kathon CG (among others)....
 
 Formaldehyde-releasing preservative...
 
 Synthetic fragrant component.
 
 Liquid that functions as a water-binding and skin-conditioning agent.
 
  
 A synthetic ester and emollient used to improve product spreadability. Methyl... 
 A mixure of the diesters of methyl glucoside and stearic acid. Functions as a skin-conditioning...
 
 A type of monosaccharide (simple sugar) derived from glucose, it serves as a skin-conditioning agent...
 
 Preservative that’s generally recommended for use only in rinse-off products such as cleansers or...
 
  
 Parabens are a group of controversial preservatives that include butylparaben... 
 Glycol that functions as a solvent. Methylpropanediol can enhance ingredients such as salicylic acid.
 
 A glyceryl ester used as an emollient and texture enhancer in cosmetics.
 
 Earth mineral included in products to give them sparkle and shine.
 
 Plastic-type, highly refined wax derived from petroleum. Used as a thickener and to give products a...
 
 Latin name for spirulina.
 
 Root with potential antioxidant properties, although there isn't conclusive research that it functions that way when applied topically.
 
 Extract from a cereal grain that has no established benefit for skin, but is added to cosmetic...
 
 Extract used as a fragrance in cosmetics.
 
 Clear, odorless oil derived from petroleum that is widely used in cosmetics because it rarely...
 
 Can be a skin sensitizer…
 
 A type of natural wax derived from lignite, which is a type of coal that’s made from wood. Most...
 
 A type of clay that is a mix of bentonite and fuller's earth, with the latter being a white to brown substance found in sediment...
 
 Moringa oil is a non-fragrant plant oil that contains several antioxidants and vitamins.
 
 Morus alba (white mulberry) root extract has antioxidant properties, but its main benefit for skin has to do with calming signs of irritation.
 
 Also known as glycosaminoglycans. This is a large class of ingredients that includes hyaluronic...
 
 Extract of a type of mold whose enzymes are used as a food additive and flavor enhancer in cheeses....
 
 There is no research showing this extract has any benefit for skin (Sources:...
 
 Non-fragrant plant extract (Latin name is Morus alba) whose various parts such as the leaf and root, have shown potential to brighten and improve the look...
 
 Camu camu is a small berry that, especially when fully ripe, possesses strong antioxidant capacity due to its levels of vitamin C.
 
 myristamidopropyl PG-dimonium chloride phosphate
 
 Cleansing agent that also creates foam and can be drying.
 
 Myristoyl hexapeptide-16 is a synthetic, fatty acid-linked peptide known to improve skin’s resilience, visibly calm, and help skin look and feel smoother.
 
 Myristoyl pentapeptide-17 is a synthetic peptide known to increase skin's hydration and resilience.
 
 A synthetic peptide made from combining the fatty acid myristic acid with tripeptide-31. This peptide is believed to have a retinol-like effect on skin’s appearance.
 
 A lighter-weight fatty alcohol that functions as a thickener, emulsion stabilizer, and emollient.
 
 Used in cosmetics as a texture enhancer and emollient.
 
 A derivative of nicotinic acid, a component of vitamin B3 (niacin) that isn’t the same ingredient...
 
 Fragrant gum resin that can be a skin sensitizer. There is little research showing it has any benefit...
 
 Contains volatile oil and tannins...
 
 Technical name for kinetin.
 
 Fragrant flower extract that can cause sensitizing reactions…
 
 Fermentation product of soy protein. It may be a potent antioxidant (Source: Journal of...
 
 One of the primary elements in keeping skin feeling and looking healthier…
 
 Neem extract has antioxidant and skin-calming benefits and may also help reduce the population of harmful microbes on skin’s surface.
 
 Neem oil contains a chemical known as nimbidin that gives it a sulfur-like odor.
 
 Used as an emollient and texture enhancer.
 
 Mixture of texture-enhancing ingredient neopentyl glycol and grape-derived fatty acid heptanoic acid...
 
 Fragrant plant oil that can be a skin sensitizer...
 
 Extract that may have soothing properties...
 
 N-hydroxysuccinimide is a synthetic ingredient used in cosmetics as an ester to soften and condition skin.
 
 Also known as vitamin B3 and nicotinic acid, niacinamide is a very effective skin-restoring ingredient...
 
 Also known as morinda or Morinda citrifolia, comes from a small evergreen tree. The juice from this...
 
 Used as a mild cleansing agent.
 
 Powder substance that is used as an absorbent and texture enhancer...
 
 Also known as pygmy waterlily. The stem has been shown to be an antioxidant...
 
 Extract that can be a skin sensitizer.
 
 Oat bran extract is a portion of the oat plant that contains antioxidant and soothing properties...
 
 Can have skin-soothing properties…
 
 Also known as octyl methoxycinnamate and ethylhexyl methoxycinnamate…
 
 Technical name for the active sunscreen ingredient octyl salicylate (also known as ethylhexyl...
 
 Globally-approved sunscreen agent that protects skin from the UVB range of sunlight.
 
 Opacifying agent, used primarily as a texture enhancer in moisturizers because of its lubricating and emollient properties.
 
 Mixture of octyldodecanol (thickener) and myristic acid that forms a new compound used as a...
 
 Skin-softening agent and emollient.
 
 Sunscreen agent used to protect skin primarily from the sun’s UVB rays…
 
 Used in cosmetics as a texture enhancer and emollient.
 
 Sunscreen agent used to protect skin primarily from the sun’s UVB rays...
 
 Used in cosmetics as a texture enhancer and emollient.
 
 Preservative used in cosmetics.
 
 An unsaponifiable oil is the portion of a plant oil that is not broken down when the oil's fatty...
 
 A skin-soothing ingredient, especially when used in synthetic rather than natural form...
 
 Oleic acid is a natural, monounsaturated omega-9 fatty acid that’s found in many plants.
 
 A form of fatty alcohol that functions as a texture enhancer and cleansing agent.
 
 Mild cleansing agents.
 
 Skin-softening agent derived from oleyl alcohol, which is obtained chiefly from fish oil.
 
 Emollient plant oil similar to many other non-fragrant plant oils. The concept of olive oil having...
 
 A type of cactus also known as prickly pear whose stem is a bountiful source of antioxidant compounds known as polyphenols.
 
 Fragrant extract that can also be a skin sensitizer.
 
 Orbignya oleifera seed oil is more commonly known as babassu oil, a non-fragrant nut oil that smooths and softens skin as well as being a good antioxidant.
 
 Fragrant flower that can be a skin sensitizer.
 
 Has beneficial properties, but can also be a skin sensitizer.
 
 Used primarily as a fragrant component due to its violet-like scent (Source:...
 
 Component of plants and their products, such as rice bran, that has potent antioxidant properties.
 
 Oryza sativa (rice) bran extract is a plant ingredient used in cosmetics to condition and soften skin.
 
 A natural, non-fragrant wax obtained from rice bran. It functions as a skin-softening agent...
 
 Large group of enzymes that block oxygen in different forms from generating environmental damage.
 
 Oxybenzone (also known as benzophenone-3) is a sunscreen agent that protects primarily from the...
 
 Mineral that is used as a texture enhancer in cosmetics, especially in lipsticks and stick...
 
 The “P.” is short for the genus Pseudopterogorgia.
 
 Sunscreen agent that protects skin primarily from the sun’s UVB rays (Source: Skin Therapy Letter,...
 
 Extract from a type of algae whose common name is dulse.
 
 Blend of the fatty acid palmitic acid with several amino acids…
 
  
 A synthetic peptide made of palmitic acid and dipeptide-10, which contains the amino acids alanine and histidine. This peptide is believed to trigger some amount of repair to damaged collagen and elastin. 
 Blend of the fatty acid palmitic acid with several amino acids…
 
 A blend of palmitic acid (a fatty acid) with several amino acids, including alanine, arginine,...
 
 Trade name Matrixyl, a fatty acid mixed with amino acids. The only research showing this has any...
 
 Palmitoyl proline combines fatty acid palmitic acid with the amino acid proline.
 
 A synthetic peptide whose trade name is Matrixyl 3000…
 
 Palmitoyl tripeptide-1 is a synthetic fatty acid-linked peptide that can help repair visible skin damage and strengthen skin’s underlying supportive elements.
 
 An ingredient manufactured by the brand Sederma under the trade name MATRIXYL synthe’6...
 
  A synthetic peptide that is believed to play a role in the appearance of skin firmness...
 
  
 A plant-derived or synthetic peptide made from combining the fatty acid palmitic acid with... 
 A mixture of fatty acids derived from palm oil. Used as a cleansing agent, emulsifier, or to add...
 
 Has emollient and antioxidant properties for skin.
 
 Ginseng is a popular herbal supplement. When applied topically it delivers antioxidant benefits, boosts hydration, and helps visibly improve signs of skin aging.
 
 Extract for which there is a small amount of research showing it has skin soothing and...
 
 Also known as pantothenic acid.
 
 Alcohol form of the B vitamin pantothenic acid.
 
 Also called vitamin B5, and often touted for a variety of benefits to skin. However, there is only one...
 
 Enzyme extracted from papaya. Applied topically, papain can aggravate skin...
 
 Extract that is the source of papain, which theoretically can have exfoliating properties on skin,...
 
 Sunscreen ingredient rarely used since the 1990s because of strong potential for sensitizing reactions.
 
 Group of preservatives, including butylparaben, propylparaben, methylparaben, and ethylparaben,...
 
 Waxy, petroleum-based substance used as a thickener in cosmetics.
 
 The Latin name for emollient ingredient mineral oil, also known as liquid paraffin.
 
 The layperson term for this Brazilian-based plant oil is passion fruit…
 
 Non-fragrant plant oil from the passion fruit plant, and a rich source of fatty acids and antioxidants...
 
 There is no research showing this has any benefit for skin.
 
 Fragrant oil derived from mint. It contains eugenol and can aggravate skin.
 
 PCA (which stands for pyrrolidone carboxylic acid), is an ingredient derived from amino acids that serves as a humectant and is part of the natural moisturizing factor.
 
 Emollient plant oil similar to all nonfragrant plant oils.
 
 Emollient plant oil similar to all nonfragrant plant oils.
 
 Natural substance found in plants, especially apples, and used in cosmetics as an emulsifier and...
 
 PEG is the acronym for polyethylene glycol. Various forms of PEG compounds are mixed with fatty...
 
 PEG stands for polyethylene glycol; PPG stands for polypropylene glycol.
 
 PEG stands for polyethylene glycol; PPG stands for polypropylene glycol.
 
 A synthetic polymer compound that functions as a solvent.
 
 PEG stands for polyethylene glycol; PPG stands for polypropylene glycol.
 
 A synthetic, silicone-enhanced polymer that helps products adhere…
 
 A synthetic or soy-derived (Paula’s Choice Skincare uses the latter) ingredient used in cosmetics as a cleansing agent and emulsifier.
 
 A blend of polyethylene glycol (PEG) and the fatty acid component of the rapeseed plant. Used as a...
 
 A skin-replenishing ingredient that is a polymer of ethylene oxide.
 
 A synthetic ingredient that functions as a humectant and solvent. With any PEG...
 
 A complex mixture of a glycol with a fatty acid and glucose that funtions multiple ways: emollient,...
 
 Peg-32 also functions as an emulsifier, which is a type of ingredient that keeps unlike substances...
 
 The synthetic polymer of ethylene oxide used as a binding agent and humectant. With any PEG...
 
 Emollient ingredient that is a mixture of polyethylene glycol (PEG) with castor oil.
 
 PEG-40 stearate typically functions as a cleansing agent, but also helps keep ingredients...
 
 The polyethylene glycol derivative of fatty acids from almond oil...
 
 The chief function of this ingredient is cleansing agent.
 
 An emulsifying and skin replenishing agent derived from glycerides (fatty acids)...
 
 PEG-75 stearate is an ester blend of polyethylene glycol and stearic acid.
 
 Mild surfactant.
 
 A synthetic skin and hair replenishing agent...
 
 Plant whose root extract can cause skin sensitivity.
 
 Pelvetia canaliculata is a type of brown seaweed also known as Channeled wrack.
 
 Synthetic fragrance used in cosmetics.
 
 A non-aqueous ester that functions as a thickener and binding agent...
 
 Synthetic compound as an emollient and thickening agent.
 
 Pentapeptide-59 is a biomimetic peptide that contains amino acids.
 
 Pentapeptides are a type of peptide where the peptide has five ("penta") amino acids. There are dozens of pentapeptides used in cosmetic products.
 
 Used as a chelating agent in cosmetics to prevent various mineral components from binding together...
 
 A synthetic skin-replenishing agent and solvent.
 
 Both the oil and the extract can have disinfectant properties...
 
 Peptides are portions of short or long-chain amino acids, and amino acids are the building blocks of protein. Skin...
 
 Also known as beefsteak plant. Like many plants, the leaves contain flavones which help the plant...
 
 Persea gratisima is the Latin name for avocado, and the oil from this fruit is an excellent source of skin-replenishing fatty acids
 
 Also known as water pepper. All parts of this plant extract have been shown in vitro to be not only...
 
 Vaseline is pure petrolatum, and petrolatum is a rich emollient and FDA-approved skin protectant.
 
  
 A plant extract with research showing it can improve skin’s resiliency and work as an antioxidant. Dill also has a calming action on sensitized skin... 
 Common cosmetic preservative that is considered one of the less sensitizing ones to use in...
 
 Alcohol used as a solvent and preservative. 
 
 Synthetic antioxidant often seen in skin-brightening products.
 
 Silicone with a drier finish than dimethicone.
 
 A flavonoid substance derived from apples and the bark of apple trees. As for topical application...
 
 Active ingredient in lecithin…
 
 Type of lipid (fat) composed of glycerol, fatty acids, and phosphate. Phospholipids are essential...
 
 Used as a pH adjuster in cosmetics and skincare products.
 
 Ingredient that can cause the skin to have a sensitizing reaction when exposed to...
 
 Phthalates refers to a wide range of substances that are very different from one another...
 
 Extract that has antioxidant and soothing properties…
 
 This plant extract has a potent calming effect on skin.
 
 Hair- and skin-conditioning agent that also has water-binding properties.
 
 Component of plants that has antioxidant properties.
 
 Phytoceramides are plant-derived ceramides.
 
 One form of vitamin K.
 
 Long-chain, complex fatty alcohol that functions as a water-binding agent and also has preservative...
 
 Phytosphingosine phosphate is a large mix of esters derived from phytosphingosine and phosphoric acid.
 
 Phytosterols are naturally occurring, cholesterol-like molecules found in all plant foods.
 
 Phytosteryl/octyldodecyl lauroyl glutamate, a mix of amino acids and plant-based sterols, functions in cosmetics as an emollient and skin-conditioner.
 
 Latin name for Norway spruce. Research has shown its bark...
 
 Contains some antioxidant and skin-soothing properties, particularly from the enzyme bromelain it contains.
 
 Components of this extract, specifically linolenic and linoleic acids, can have antioxidant...
 
 It can aggravate skin and should never be used on abraded or chafed skin…
 
 Pine extract that may aggravate skin...
 
 Emollient plant oil with uses similar to peanut oil in cosmetics.
 
 Pisum sativa (pea) extract has documented antioxidant ability thanks to its natural content of ellagic acid and beta-sitosterol, gallic acid, and quercetin.
 
 A marine species known as Thalasso plankton and derived from various algae, seaweed, or marine skeletons...
 
 Ingredients that place a thin layer of plastic over the skin. Typically these are used in facial...
 
 Jabuticaba is a dark berry native to Brazil and, like many berries, is a rich source of nearly a dozen polyphenolic antioxidants.
 
 Extract of Prunus americana that may have antioxidant activity when applied topically (Source:...
 
 Plum (Prunus domestica) seed oil, also known as plum kernel oil, is non-fragrant oil…
 
 A synthetic polymer that functions as a cleansing agent.
 
 Liquid polymer that functions as a surfactant. This ingredient can also keep unlike ingredients...
 
  
 A synthetic polymer that functions to protect skin's surface, thicken products, and help keep cosmetic... 
 Polyacrylate crosspolymer-6 is a synthetic powder ingredient that stabilizes and thickens water-based emulsions.
 
 Synthetic polymer that functions as a preservative.
 
  Polymer derived from mineral oil and used as a thickener and lubricant.
 
 A form of plastic (synthetic polymer) that has numerous functions in cosmetic products. Rounded...
 
 Also listed as PEG on ingredient labels, polyethylene glycol is an ingredient that self-proclaimed...
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Polyglyceryl-10 caprylate/caprate is a single ester created from polymers and glycerin used in skin care as an emulsifier or solvent.
 
 Polyglyceryl-10 dioleate is a mixture of the fatty acid esters of oleic acid and a polymer, polyglycerin-10, which functions as a hydrator and emulsifier.
 
 A plant-derived or synthetic ester of lauric acid and the synthetic polymer polyglycerin-10.
 
 Polyglyceryl-10 stearate is the ester of stearic acid with a glycerin polymer that functions as a skin-softener and emollient ingredient.
 
 A mixture of the fatty acid Isostearic acid and a form of glycerin that functions as a...
 
 The ester of fatty acids from beeswax and polyglycerin-3 that functions as a surfactant and...
 
 An ingredient that serves as a surfactant and emulsifier and is a derivative of the fatty acids that come from rice bran oil.
 
 Polyglyceryl-3 stearate is the ester of the fatty acid stearic acid and polyglycerin-3, which is a polymer of glycerin that contains three units.
 
 The ester of isostearic acid and polyglycerin-4 that functions as an emollient and can also be a...
 
 Polyglyceryl-4 laurate works as an emollient, emulsifier, and a cleansing agent
 
 Polyglyceryl-4 olivate is the plant-derived or synthetic ester of olive oil and polyglycerin.
 
 The ester of isostearic acid and a form of glycerin. Functions as an emollient and an emulsifier in...
 
 Polygonum cuspidatum root extract is a plant whose root is a good source of the potent polyphenolic antioxidant trans-resveratrol.
 
 Ingredients such as gluconolactone and lactobionic acid are types of polyhydroxy acid (PHA). They...
 
 Synthetic polymer related to stearic acid. It functions as a suspending agent.
 
 A polymer of the hydrocarbon isobutylene obtained from petroleum oil. It functions as a thickening...
 
 A word that literally means “many parts.” Any of numerous compounds having a high molecular weight...
 
 A polymer formed from the condensation and hydrolysis of the silicone methyltrimethoxysilane.
 
 Also known by the acronym PPG, polypropylene glycol is...
 
 Group of ingredients used primarily in hair-care products for their antistatic and film-forming...
 
 Natural component of skin that can be a good water-binding agent and potentially have antioxidant...
 
 Specialized, synthetic crosslinked siloxane that functions as a film-forming agent and polymer.
 
 Large group of ingredients most often derived from lauric acid, which is derived from coconuts....
 
 A synthetic polymer of vinyl alcohol that functions in cosmetics as a gel-based thickener, film-forming, and binding agent.
 
 Usually listed on ingredient labels as PVP or PVP copolymer, it is one of the primary ingredients...
 
 Pomegranate and its extracts have antioxidant properties that, while not conclusively demonstrated on human skin
 
 Oil derived from the seeds of the Millettia pinnata tree, a plant native to South and Southeast Asia...
 
 Also known as Hoelen and Fu ling. Extract derived from a mushroom, which has antioxidant and...
 
 Extract derived from a type of red algae. There is research showing components of red algae contain...
 
 Extract that may have soothing properties...
 
 Important element in diet that is present in such fruits as bananas and citrus. It is also an earth...
 
 Blend of vitamins C and E with phosphorus that functions as an antioxidant.
 
 A water soluble derivative of azelaic acid, potassium azeloyl diglycinate is believed to convey many of the same benefits as pure azelaic acid.
 
 Used as a detergent cleansing agent.
 
 Potassium citrate is a buffering agent that is the potassium salt of citric acid.
 
 Also known as lye, a highly alkaline ingredient used in small amounts in cosmetics to modulate the...
 
 Detergent cleansing agent that is a constituent of soap; it can be drying and aggravate skin for some...
 
 Potassium PCA is the potassium salt of PCA (pyrrolidone carboxylic acid), a substance that’s a natural part of skin’s intercellular matrix.
 
 An inorganic (not composed of plant or animal matter) salt used as a buffering agent and pH...
 
 Used as a preservative, almost always used in conjunction with other preservatives.
 
 A copolymer that serves as a film-forming agent...
 
 Versatile ingredient composed of several non-volatile alcohols. Functions as a skin-conditioning...
 
 Used as a hair- and skin-conditioning agent.
 
 A synthetic ingredient that funtions as hair- and skin-replenishing agent. The "PPG" designation...
 
 PPG stands for polypropylene glycol, and this ingredient combines PPG with a fatty alcohol....
 
 An emulsifying agent partially derived from a fatty alcohol.
 
 Mixture of glycols and fatty alcohols used as a skin-conditioning agent and, in some cases, as a...
 
 An emollient that has a silicone-like feel and multiple functions in cosmetic products...
 
 Substances used in cosmetics to help defend against contamination of products...
 
 A glycol that can enhance the absorption of ingredients…
 
 Brownish, resinous material that is collected by bees and used to construct the hive. It has...
 
 Liquid used as a solvent and film-forming agent.
 
 Along with other glycols and glycerol, propylene glycol is a humectant (hydrating) and delivery ingredient...
 
 propylene glycol dibenzoate
 
 A gel-textured ingredient used in many lightweight moisturizers. It is a mix of propylene glycol...
 
 A mixture of propylene glycol and isostearic acid. See both. This ingredient is used as an...
 
 The ester of propylene glycol and lauric acid, which is a constituent of many vegetable fats.
 
 Mixture of propylene glycol and stearic acid used as a skin-conditioning agent and emulsifier.
 
 An ester of gallic acid that is an antioxidant, and helps protect fats and oils used in cosmetics products from becoming rancid...
 
  
 Parabens are a group of controversial preservatives that include butylparaben... 
 Non-fragrant plant oil, more commonly known as plum (and, when dried, prune) that is a rich source of several potent antioxidants.
 
 Commonly known as black cherry, wild cherry extract is a potent source of antioxidants, notably several kinds of antioxidants known as polyphenols.
 
 Guava extract is a rich source of bioactive antioxidants including gallic acid, quercetin, and tocopherol.
 
 Glucan gum produced by black yeast that contains polysaccharides, which makes it a good...
 
 Plant whose seeds are a rich source of fatty acids and several antioxidant components, including...
 
 Type of squash that is a very good source of antioxidant cartenoids. Pumpkin seed oil and extract...
 
 Synthetic polymer used as a film-forming and thickening agent.
 
 Polymer formed from PVP (polyvinylpyrrolidone) and the film-forming agent dimethylaminomethacrylate.
 
 Antioxidant derived from the bark of the French Maritime pine tree. The term pycnogenol was...
 
 Scientific name for vitamin B6; may have antioxidant benefits for skin when...
 
 Pyrus malus (apple) fruit extract is a species of apple; the fruit is a tremendous source of polyphenolic antioxidants.
 
 Formaldehyde-releasing preservative used in cosmetics. It can be a skin sensitizer, as can all...
 
 Used as a suspending agent and also has emulsifying properties.
 
 A wide range of ingredients, called “quats” for short, that share a unique molecular structure that...
 
 A bioflavonoid ingredient from plants. Quercetin occurs naturally in red wine, tea, onions, kale, tomatoes, berries, and many other fruits and vegetables...
 
 Extract of the Chilean soap bark tree. It contains a good amount of saponins, which have cleansing,...
 
 Used as a thickening agent in cosmetics, but also has skin-constricting properties...
 
 Derived from quinoa grain, it may have disinfectant properties (Source: Journal of Agricultural Food...
 
 Nonfragrant oil that has emollient and potential antioxidant properties for skin (Source: British...
 
 Raphanus sativus (radish) seed oil is non-fragrant plant oil that’s a rich source of unsaturated fatty acids.
 
 Red 28 is a synthetic coloring agent that uses a combination of colors to create its red hue.
 
 Red 7 lake is a synthetic coloring agent approved for use in drugs and cosmetics.
 
 Can have antioxidant and soothing properties...
 
 Versatile ingredient composed of several non-volatile alcohols. Functions as a...
 
 Potent polyphenolic antioxidant that is abundant in red grapes and, therefore, in red wine...
 
 Retinol, the name for the entire vitamin A molecule, is a skin-restoring ingredient and an antioxidant.
 
 An ester of vitamin A (retinoic acid) and vitamin C (ascorbic acid) that functions as an antioxidant...
 
 Combination of retinol (pure vitamin A) and the fatty acid palmitic acid. Research has shown...
 
 A synthetic, "new generation" retinol with research showing its usefulness for skin...
 
 The extract of the plant Rhodiola rosea, also known as Arctic root or golden root, that is high in antioxidants and flavonoids.
 
 Emollient oil similar to other nonfragrant plant oils. There is no research showing this has any...
 
 Emollient similar to other nonfragrant plant oils. There is no research showing this has any...
 
 Absorbent substance sometimes included in products rather than talc....
 
 Glyceryl triester used in cosmetics as a thickening agent and emollient.
 
 Oil of a very fragrant pink rose used as fragrance in cosmetics.
 
 Fragrant extract.
 
 Extract from the chestnut rose; can be a source of antioxidants for skin, and does not impart...
 
 Highly fragrant substance that can be a skin sensitizer.
 
 Fragrant, volatile oil that can aggravate skin. There is no research showing...
 
 Good emollient oil that has antioxidant properties (Sources: Journal of Agricultural Food...
 
 Extract that can have antioxidant benefit for skin (Source: Journal of Agricultural Food Chemistry,...
 
 Fragrant plant oil derived from rosemary, Latin name Rosmarinus officinalis. This ingredient is primarily used as a fragrance in cosmetics...
 
 Fragrant, volatile oil that can aggravate skin.
 
 Fragrant plant oil with a spicy-sweet scent, also known as bois de rose. It is extracted from wood...
 
 The myriad claims about royal jelly are anecdotal and have no research to substantiate them.
 
 Rubus chamaemorus (also known as cloudberry) is a plant grown primarily in Scandinavian countries whose golden-red berries are rich sources of anthocyanins, beta-carotene, and vitamin E.
 
 Red raspberry gets its red color from the presence of antioxidant compounds known as anthocyanins.
 
 The Latin name for blackberry fruit extract. This plant extract has antioxidant ability...
 
 Bioflavonoid that is extracted from various plants and used in cosmetics as an antioxidant and...
 
 Good water-binding agent and emollient for skin.
 
 Extract of yeast fermented in the presence of calcium ions. It has no known benefit for skin.
 
 Saccharomyces, from the Latin, literally means “sugar fungus,” and is the scientific name for the...
 
 Extract of yeast fermented in the presence of copper ions. There is no known benefit for skin,...
 
 Extract of yeast fermented in the presence of iron ions.
 
 Saccharomyces lysate is a probiotic yeast obtained by fermentation.
 
 Extract of yeast fermented in the presence of magnesium ions.
 
 Extract of yeast fermented in the presence of manganese ions.
 
 Derived from the sugarcane plant. Glycolic acid is also derived from sugarcane, but sugarcane...
 
 Extract of yeast fermented in the presence of potassium ions.
 
 An ingredient created by the fermentation of the Saccharomyces yeast with the mineral selenium.
 
 Extract of yeast fermented in the presence of silicon ions.
 
 Extract of yeast fermented in the presence of zinc ions.
 
 Emollient oil derived from the safflower (Carthamus tinctorius) plant.
 
 Plant used most often to enhance the flavor of foods. Like all plant extracts, sage...
 
 Also called beta hydroxy acid (BHA), this multifunctional ingredient addresses many of the systemic causes of acne.
 
 Non-fragrant plant oil whose seeds are a rich source of fatty acids...
 
 Blue elderberry. May have antioxidant properties for skin.
 
 When taken orally, this has antioxidant properties (Source: Journal of Agricultural Food...
 
  
 Sambucus nigra is a dark purple to black shrub-growing berry with potent antioxidant properties. 
 Fragrant oil that can cause skin-sensitizing reactions...
 
 Latin name for sandalwood extract, which is used in cosmetics as a fragrance. It can have...
 
 A plant extract that is a natural source of saponin...
 
 Group of natural carbohydrates, found in plants, that have considerable potential...
 
  
 A synthetic amino acid derivative that functions as a skin conditioning... 
 Also called costus oil. Volatile oil and fragrant component used in cosmetics; it can be a skin...
 
 Also known as five flavor fruit and Chinese magnolia vine, magnolia fruit is a small red berry loaded with beneficial compounds.
 
 Fermented from clary sage and used as a fragrant component in cosmetics.
 
 More commonly known as marula oil, Sclerocarya birrea oil is a non-fragrant plant oil that's a rich source...
 
 A plant-derived, gel-like polysaccharide (sugar-based) ingredient that’s used in cosmetics to thicken and stabilize formulas. It is considered safe as used in cosmetics, and is similar to xanthan gum.
 
 Scutellaria baicalensis root extract comes from a flowering plant native to China.
 
 Denatured alcohol used as a solvent. It can be drying and sensitizing to skin when one of the main...
 
 Also known as seaberry, sea buckthorn is a good source of vitamin C as well as various B vitamins, and vitamin E.
 
 Trade name for an algae extract.
 
 Can be effective as a topical scrub, but if left on skin it can increase skin sensitivity to UVB...
 
 Group of sea plants (scientific name: algae) of all sizes and shapes, and having a gelatin-like...
 
 Extract from a creature that inhabits coral reefs, known for its soothing properties...
 
 Used as a pH adjuster.
 
 Mineral considered to be a potent antioxidant...
 
 Scientific name for silk protein.
 
 Sesame oil is a non-fragrant plant oil that is a good source of monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats along with vitamin E and lignans.
 
 Used in cosmetics as a thickening agent and emollient.
 
 Shea butter is a plant lipid extracted from the karite tree that is used as an emollient in cosmetics.
 
 Chinese herb (also known as St. Paul’s wort) for which there is no research showing that it has any...
 
 Mineral found abundantly in sandstone, clay, and granite, as well as in parts of plants and...
 
 Used as a slip and suspending agent.
 
 Silica silylate works as a binder, thickening agent, and emollient in cosmetics.
 
 Inorganic salt that has potent absorbing and thickening properties.
 
 Substance derived from silica (sand is a silica). The unique fluid properties of silicone give it a...
 
 Synthetically derived powder used as an absorbent and slip agent.
 
 Protein substance (also called sericin) formed by converting silk, which is the soft, lustrous...
 
 A sediment obtained from various bodies of water. Silt’s absorbent nature helps it function to...
 
 Metallic element that in cosmetics can have disinfecting properties; however, prolonged contact can...
 
 An inorganic salt that has no known function in cosmetics.
 
 Silymarin marianum is a plant whose many components have pronounced antioxidant and skin-calming ability.
 
 Mixture of dimethicone with silica; related to silicones, but used as an antifoaming agent.
 
 These are skincare ingredients that help enrich skin’s surface, drenching it with revitalizing hydration and keeping it there.
 
 Skincare ingredients that nourish skin’s surface in a way that helps transform it on many levels...
 
 Herbal extract from Scutellaria baicalensis that has antioxidant soothing properties...
 
 Term used to describe a range of ingredients that help other ingredients spread over the skin and...
 
 Can be a skin-soothing ingredient.
 
 True “soaps” are regulated by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and are not required to list...
 
 Extract from the tree Sapindus saponaria. The berries contain a good amount of Saponins.
 
 Plant from which is derived an extract with detergent cleansing properties.
 
 The sodium salt derived from acetic acid, it serves as a buffering agent when used in small amounts.
 
 Synthetic polymer used as a stabilizing and suspending agent and as a thickening agent.
 
 Sodium acrylates copolymer is a synthetic, acrylic-based polymer that functions in cosmetics as a texture enhancer, binder, and film-forming agent.
 
 Sodium ascorbyl phosphate is a stable, water-soluble form of vitamin C that functions as an antioxidant.
 
 Salt of benzoic acid used as a preservative.
 
 A synthetic inorganic salt more commonly known as baking soda. It has many functions in cosmetics, including pH adjuster, buffering agent, and abrasive, such as in face or body scrubs.
 
 Used in acid-type permanent waves to alter the shape of hair. It is less damaging than alkaline...
 
 Can be derived from coconut. Used primarily as a detergent cleansing agent, but is potentially...
 
 A blend of sodium (salt) and carbomer that functions as a stabilizer and film-forming agent.
  
 Absorbent salt used in cosmetics; it can also be a skin sensitizer.
 
 A carbohydrate ingredient with a gel-like texture, it functions as a binding agent and texture...
 
 A mixture of stearyl and cetyl sulfate that funtions as a surfactant.
 
 More popularly known as common table salt. Used primarily as a binding agent in skincare products...
 
 Derived from natural mucopolysaccharides, it functions as a skin-softening agent and helps...
 
 Used primarily to control the pH level of a product, this ingredient also has antioxidant and...
 
 A gentle cleansing agent derived from coconut fatty acids. It functions as a cleansing agent and...
 
 Used as a cleansing agent primarily in soaps. It can be drying and sensitizing for skin.
 
 The salt form of amino acids...
 
 A cleansing agent derived from coconut oil. This ingredient is also used to help soften (remove...
 
 Sodium cocoyl glycinate is an amino acid-derived cleansing agent and skin-softening ingredient in skin care and hair care products.
 
 Derived from coconut, it is a mild detergent cleansing agent.
 
 Organic salt used as a preservative.
 
 A plant-derived ingredient that helps replenish skin and hair...
 
 The salt form of gluconic acid, sodium gluconate is a mild acid produced from the sugar glucose.
 
 Salt with multiple functions in cosmetics. It can act as a detergent, an emulsifier, a texturizer,...
 
 The salt form of skin-replenishing ingredient hyaluronic acid.
 
 A modified form of skin-replenishing hyaluronic acid attached to a polymer structure
 
 Also known as lye, it is a highly alkaline ingredient used in small amounts in cosmetics to...
 
 Derived from amino acids and used as a skin- and hair-softening agent, and to a lesser extent as...
 
 Sodium salt of lactic acid. Used primarily as a hydrating and buffering agent (to adjust a...
 
 White, crystalline powder used to synthesize other chemicals. May function as a preservative in...
 
 Used primarily as a detergent cleansing agent. 
 
 Can be derived from coconut; it is used primarily as a detergent cleansing agent. It is considered...
 
 Mild surfactant also used as a lather agent.
 
 Used as an emulsifier and mild thickening agent in cosmetics. In higher concentrations, it...
 
 A skin-soothing salt created by condensing the chloride form of a fatty acid with amino acids derived from oats.
 
 Sodium lauroyl sarcosinate is a synthetic or plant-derived surfactant (cleansing agent) that also works as an emulsifier.
 
 A gentle cleansing agent that may be derived from coconut or made synthetically.
 
 Versatile ingredient composed of several non-volatile alcohols. Functions primarily as a surfactant...
 
 Sodium levulinate is the salt of levulinic acid, a synthetic organic acid that helps condition and soften skin.
 
 Reducing agent that alters the structure of hair. It can also be used as a preservative in...
 
 Mild surfactant.
 
 Mild surfactant often combined with...
 
 Detergent cleansing agent similar to sodium laureth sulfate or ammonium laureth sulfate...
 
 A soap ingredient created by the salts of acids derived from palm oil. May be naturally-derived or...
 
 Sodium palmitoyl sarcosinate is the salt of palmitoyl sarcosinate, which is derived from the amino acid derivative sarcosine.
 
 PCA (pyrrolidone carboxylic acid) is a natural component of skin that is also a very good...
 
 A mild surfactant formed by reacting fatty acids from olive oil esters from polyethylene glycol...
 
 The salt form of the corn-derived plant component phytic acid, used as a chelating agent in...
 
 A synthetic polymer with multiple functions, including film-forming agent, stabilizer, absorbent,...
 
 Sodium polyacrylate starch is a mixture of a natural starch combined with a synthetic acrylate polymer.
 
 Salt form of salicylic acid (BHA). Because it is not the acid form of salicylate (i.e., salicylic...
 
 Highly alkaline and potentially sensitizing mineral used in cosmetics...
 
 Sodium stearoyl glutamate is a synthetic or animal-derived ingredient that is added to cosmetics to condition skin or work as an emulsifier.
 
 A synthetic or animal-derived ingredient...
 
 Reducing agent that alters the structure of hair. It can also be used as a preservative in cosmetic...
 
 Sodium salt of tallow.
 
 A synthetic ingredinet that functions as a reducing agent in cosmetics, most typically hair-removal lotions...
 
 Extract that is more commonly known as potato starch. Used as a thickening agent and texture enhancer in cosmetics.
 
 Describes a large group of ingredients, including water, that are used to dissolve or break down...
 
 Trade name for petrolatum.
 
 Any ingredient that reduces certain signs of sensitivity in skin...
 
 Sorbeth-230 tetraoleate is a mixture of oleic acid with sorbitol derivatives that can help thicken cosmetic formulas.
 
 Preservative derived from mountain ash berries or manufactured synthetically. Sorbic acid is used...
 
 Sorbitan laurate is an ester that works as a cleansing agent and emulsifier.
 
 Synthetic or animal-derived ingredient used as an emulsifier and cleansing agent.
 
 Sorbitan olivate is a mixture of the fatty acids from olive oil plus a sugar known as sorbitol.
 
 Used to thicken and stabilize cosmetic formulations.
 
 Sorbitol is a type of sugar that can be created synthetically or derived from natural sources.
 
 Potent antioxidant and soothing agent for skin...
 
 Emollient oil similar to all nonfragrant plant oils.
 
 Fragrant, volatile oil that can cause skin sensitivity.
 
 Sphingolipids are complex lipids (fats) that function as skin-replenishing and conditioning ingredients...
 
 Spiraea ulmaria extract, commonly known as meadowsweet, is a plant whose various parts have been shown to calm factors in skin that lead to signs of irritation.
 
 Squalane is a moisturizing ingredient that’s also a source of skin-replenishing fatty acids and antioxidants.
 
 Oil derived from shark liver or from plants (usually olives). It is a natural component...
 
 Contains several components that are harmful to skin in the presence of sunlight (Sources: Planta...
 
 Antistatic agent used in hair-care products.
 
 Antistatic ingredient used in hair-care products to control flyaways and aid in helping a brush or...
 
 Used as a suspending agent.
 
 Derived from the benign fatty ingredient stearyl alcohol, this functions primarily as a surfactant...
 
 Fatty acid used as an emollient and emulsifier...
 
 Fatty alcohol used as an emollient and to help keep other ingredients intact in a formulation.
 
 Stearyl dimethicone is a synthetic skin-conditioning agent that's a siloxane polymer...
 
 The fatty acid form of the skin soothing glycyrrhetinic acid, which is derived from licorice.
 
 Silicone polymer used as a skin-conditioning or occlusive agent.
 
 A plant-based wax prepared with natural fatty acids combined with synthetic fatty alcohols.
 
 Synthetic polymer.
 
 Monosaccharide that has hydrating properties for skin.
 
 Sucrose stearate is an ester of stearic acid and sugar that works as an emollient and cleansing agent.
 
 Ingredients like sugarcane extract, fruit extracts, mixed fruit extracts, and milk solids may claim...
 
 Sulfates are a group of ingredients that have many consumers worried but in truth, misinformation, not sulfates, are the actual problem...
 
 Disinfectant agent that can be a potent skin sensitizer...
 
 Non-volatile plant oil used as an emollient in cosmetics.
 
 Most commonly seen as SPF, it is a number that is assigned to a product that identifies its ability...
 
 Enzyme considered to be an antioxidant...
 
 Shortened term for surface active agent. Surfactants degrease and emulsify oils and fats and...
 
 Most often used in its oil form, this ingredient is expressed from almonds. Also used as an...
  
 Emollient, non-fragrant plant oil.
 
 An artificial form of beeswax composed of a mixture of alcohol esters...
 
 Synthetic fluorophlogopite is a synthetic mineral material used in cosmetics to add bulk and to thicken emulsions.
 
 A wax derived from a mixture of various oils. It functions as a binding and stabilizing agent.
 
 From a plant native to Szechuan Province in China. It grows on trees, and so differs from black...
 
 Naturally occurring silicate mineral (any group of substances containing negative ions composed of...
 
 Substance extracted from the fatty deposits of animals, especially from suet (the fat of cattle and...
 
 From a tree native to Polynesia. It is reputed to have wondrous skin-restoring properties, as well…
 
 Fragrant, volatile citrus oil that can be a skin sensitizer…
 
 Polyphenol that's considered a very good antioxidant…
 
  
 A natural thickener and texture enhancer derived from the roots of Manihot... 
 Tartaric acid is a naturally-occurring crystalline organic acid found in many plants, including grapes and tamarinds.
 
 While there is abundant research showing sodium lauryl sulfate is a sensitizing cleansing agent,...
 
 Also known as Melaleuca, from the name of its native Australian plant source, Melaleuca alternifolia.
 
 Terminalia chebula is an Ayurvedic plant extract that’s native to South Asia, where it’s known as “The King of Medicine”.
 
 Tetrahexyldecyl ascorbate is a stable form of vitamin C that is considered an analogue of L-ascorbic acid. Unlike pure vitamin C...
 
 Antioxidant and skin-soothing plant extract.
 
 A synthetic antioxidant derived from curcumin.
 
 A synthetic antioxidant that provides the effects of the antioxidant curcumin but...
 
 Antioxidant and skin-soothing plant extract.
 
 Antioxidant and skin-soothing plant extract.
 
 Tetrapeptide-30 is a peptide that targets the appearance of discolorations and uneven skin tone.
 
 Chelating agent used to prevent minerals present in formulations from bonding to other ingredients.
 
 Used as a chelating agent in cosmetics to prevent varying mineral components from binding together...
 
 Tetrasodium glutamate diacetate is a chelating agent that can boost the effectiveness of preservatives.
 
 Vitamin B1. There is no research showing this to be effective when applied topically on skin.
 
 Substances that can have a soft to hard waxlike texture or a creamy, emollient feel, and that can...
 
 Technical name for the antioxidant alpha lipoic acid. Unlike many antioxidants that are either...
 
 Acid-based synthetic antioxidant. There is no research pertaining to its benefit for skin, but in...
 
 Amino acid. Potentially, it can have antioxidant properties for skin...
 
 Extract derived from the leaf or flower of the thyme plant. It can have potent antioxidant...
  
 The most concentrated part of the thyme plant, and a source of antioxidants, some of which...
 
 Form of animal thymus derived by acid, enzyme, or other methods of hydrolysis. It can have...
 
 Extract of wild thyme.
 
 Thymus vulgaris oil is more commonly known as thyme oil.
 
 Inert earth mineral used as a thickening, whitening, lubricating, and sunscreen ingredient in...
  
 Potent forms of vitamins E that are considered stable and powerful antioxidants. These forms of...
 
 Extract that has weak antioxidant properties...
 
 Plant that can be irritating due to its tannin content, which causes skin constriction.
 
 Natural gum used as a thickener in cosmetics.
 
 A synthetic amino acid that functions as a skin-conditioning agent and astringent.
 
 Plant sugar that has hydrating properties for skin.
 
 Also known as glyceryl tribehenate, a skin-conditioning agent that is a mixture of glycerin and...
 
 A complex mixture of tribehenin and PEG-20, this ingredient has multiple functions in cosmetic...
 
 Mixture of glycerin and caprylic acid. Has emollient properties and is used as a skin-softening...
 
 Trideceth-12 is a synthetic mixture of a fatty alcohol (tridecyl alcohol) and polyethylene glycol that functions as an emulsifier and cleansing agent.
 
 An emulsifier, meaning it helps keep unlike ingredients (such as oil and water) from separating in an emulsion...
 
 Salt form of salicylic acid (BHA). When it is no longer an acid (as in this case), salicylic acid...
 
 Used in cosmetics as a thickening agent and emollient.
 
 Used as a skin-conditioning agent and thickening agent. 
 
 Used in cosmetics as a pH balancer. Like all amines, it has the potential for creating...
 
 Silicone that functions as a binding agent and emulsifier. 
 
 A silicone polymer used to enhance a product's texture.
 
 A silicone polymer that has multiple functions in cosmetic products, including skin-conditioning...
 
 Triethylhexanoin is a synthetic mixture of glycerin and a fatty acid that functions as a solvent, occlusive, and skin-conditioning ingredient.
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Latin name for the fenugreek plant. The seeds are used most often, and their fiber content helps...
 
 Mixture of glycerin and fatty acids that is used as an emollient and thickening agent.
 
 A trimester of the fatty alcohol isocetyl alcohol and citric acid. It is used as on occlusive agent.
 
 Group of ingredients that are triesters of glycerin and aliphatic acids, and known generically as...
 
 Trimethylsiloxyamodimethicone is a synthetic silicone-based polymer that functions as a conditioning agent, hydrating and smoothing skin’s surface due to its lightweight yet silky, non-greasy feel.
 
 Used as a skin-softening and occlusive agent.
 
 Derived from lanolin and used as a texture enhancer, most commonly in powder-based products such as...
 
 Used as an emollient and thickening agent in cosmetics.
 
 Mixture of octyldodecanol and citric acid used as a skin-softening agent and emollient.
 
 Tripeptide-1, aka GHK (glycine, histidine, lysine - the amino acids that comprise it), is a synthetic signal peptide that teaches skin to rebuild damaged areas.
 
 Tripeptide-29 is a synthetic peptide consisting of amino acids glycine and proline plus hydroxyproline (an amino acid derivative) shown to improve uneven texture and the look of fine lines.
 
 A synthetic peptide with the "tri" (meaning three) designation referring to this peptide's mix of the amino acids proline, serine, and threonine.
 
  
 Also known as false mayweed or sea mayweed, this plant extract encompasses the entire plant. Raw material... 
 Similar to tetrasodium EDTA. Used as a water-softening and chelating agent (a compound that binds...
 
 Extract from the germ portion of the wheat plant. In cosmetics, this ingredient functions as a...
 
 A flavonoid ingredient that's extracted from the Japanese plant Sophora japonica.
 
 Turmeric is a spice made from the dried, ground root of the Curcuma longa plant.
 
 it is a vitamin-like, fat-soluble substance.
 
 Inorganic pigments (of various colors) permanently listed by the FDA for external use only,...
 
 Extract from the plant known as sea lettuce, it has some soothing and antioxidant...
 
 Also known as cat’s claw, there is some research showing it to be an effective soothing...
 
 Undaria pinnatifida, also known as brown algae, is a type of seaweed that’s also edible.
 
 Component of urine, although synthetic versions are used in cosmetics. In small amounts urea has...
 
 Ultraviolet A radiation. The sun produces a range of ultraviolet (UV) radiation, of which UVA and...
 
 Ultra-violet B radiation.
 
 Latin term for cranberry.
 
 Bilberry is one of the best sources of antioxidant compounds known as anthocyanins.
 
 Vaccinium vitis-idaea (also known as lingonberry) is a wild-growing Scandinavian-native berry that’s similar in nutrient profile and size with its plant “cousin”, blueberry.
 
 Blueberry fruit extract is rich in antioxidants, such as anthocyanins and flavonoids.
 
 Extract used primarily as a fragrance and flavoring agent. The vanilla plant is a source of...
 
 Fragrant extract that can be a skin sensitizer...
 
 Fragrant component in skincare products that also has some beneficial properties...
 
 Blend of silicone polymers that functions as a thickening agent and texture enhancer.
 
 Overall there is limited research showing vitamin B12 has any benefit when applied topically on skin
 
 There is no research showing this has any benefit when applied topically to skin. However, there is...
 
 Also known as pantothenic acid.
 
 There is no research showing it to have benefit for skin.
 
 Vitamin C is a top rated skin care ingredient to help maintain healthy-looking and radiant skin...
 
 A fat-soluble vitamin (technically, it's a hormone) that may have antioxidant, soothing, and...
 
 One of the most well-known and researched antioxidants for the body and for skin. Vitamin E occurs...
 
 Name sometimes used to represent essential fatty acids of linoleic acid and linolenic acid. These...
 
 Technically known as phytonadione, vitamin K is a fat-soluble....
 
 Latin name for the vines that produce wine grapes. More commonly known as grape seed oil or grape...
 
 Group of volatile fluids derived primarily from plants and used in cosmetics primarily as fragrant...
 
 A film-forming agent often used in water-resistant sunscreen products. It helps the sunscreen...
 
 Synthetic polymer.
 
 Extract that can have antioxidant properties...
 
 Emollient, non-fragrant plant oil...
 
 Abrasive used in scrub products; not preferred to polyethylene beads.
 
 The most widely used cosmetic ingredient; water is almost always listed first on an ingredient...
 
 Research indicates that watercress extracts can have antioxidant activity, but that information is limited...
 
 Extract from the fruit <em>Citrullus lantus</em>, commonly known as watermelon...
 
 A blend of amino acids from wheat protein after it has been broken down via hydrolysis. Most often...
 
 Used as emollient and texture enhancer in cosmetics.
 
 Emollient plant oil similar to all non-fragrant plant oils.
 
 A form of protein derived from milk. An animal-derived ingredient, whey protein functions as a hair...
 
 Contains components that can have both soothing and sensitizing properties...
 
 Extract from the minimally processed buds and leaves of green tea. There is research showing that...
 
 Contains salicin, a substance that when taken orally is converted by the digestive process to...
 
 A type of mint often used to ease the discomfort of sore muscles...
 
 Commonly used plant extract that can have antioxidant properties...
 
 Used as a thickening agent.
 
 Also known as lutein, this is a cartenoid pigment from plants that functions as an antioxidant.
 
 Latin name for plum oil; it can have emollient properties.
 
 Xylitol is a sugar alcohol that may be plant-derived or synthetic (Paula’s Choice uses the former).
 
 An ingredient derived from two water-binding plant sugars, xylitol and glucose.
 
 Form of sugar. Similar to other sugars, xylose has hydrating properties for skin.
 
 Synthetic fatty acid that functions as a skin-softening agent.
 
 Extract for which there is little research showing it to have any benefit for skin. What studies do...
 
 Group of fungi that ferment sugars. Yeast is a source of beta-glucan, which is a good antioxidant....
 
 Yellow 5 lake is synthetic coloring agent approved for use in foods, drugs and cosmetics.
 
 Plant ingredient used in the preparation of the most popular tea-like beverage in South America. It has...
 
 Fragrant, volatile oil that can also be a skin sensitizer…
 
 There is no research showing that yogurt is effective when applied topically on skin. Yogurt...
 
 Plant extract that can have soothing benefits...
 
 There is growing evidence that zinc can be a significant soothing agent and antioxidant. It also can...
 
 Zinc gluconate is the zinc salt of gluconic acid produced from glucose that functions as a preservative.
 
 Zinc oxide is an inert earth mineral used as a thickening, whitening, lubricating, and sunscreen ingredient in cosmetics.
 
 A synthetic skin-softening ingredient derived from zinc, research has shown it to have anti-aging benefits due to...
 
 The zinc salt of stearic acid. It has multiple functions in cosmetics, including serving as the...
 
 Chemical compound resulting from the interaction of zinc with sulfuric acid. There is little...
 